Journal of Economic Literature 2021, 59 (2), 391–425


https://doi.org/10.1257/jel.20191450



Using Synthetic Controls:



Feasibility, Data Requirements, and



Methodological Aspects†



Alberto Abadie*



Probably because of their interpretability and transparent nature, synthetic controls have become widely applied in empirical research in economics and the social sci-ences. This article aims to provide practical guidance to researchers employing syn-thetic control methods. The article starts with an overview and an introduction to synthetic control estimation. The main sections discuss the advantages of the synthetic control framework as a research design, and describe the settings where synthetic con-trols provide reliable estimates and those where they may fail. The article closes with a discussion of recent extensions, related methods, and avenues for future research. (JEL B41, C32, C54, E23, F15, O47)



1. Introduction conditions, synthetic controls provide sub-



S stantial advantages as a research design

ynthetic control methods (Abadie and method in the social sciences. These advan-

Gardeazabal 2003; Abadie, Diamond, tages, I believe, explain the increasing

and Hainmueller 2010) have become widely popularity of synthetic control methods

applied in empirical research in economics in empirical research. At the same time,

and other disciplines. Under appropriate the validity of synthetic control estimators

depends on important practical require-



of Technology. I would like to thank Matias Cattaneo, * ments. Perfunctory applications that ignore Department of Economics, Massachusetts Institute the context of the empirical investigation and the characteristics of the data may miss the Brigham Frandsen, Bruno Ferman, Javier Gardeazabal,



Jens Hainmueller, Jérémy L’Hour, Guido Imbens, Devavrat mark, producing misleading estimates. Shah, Kaspar Wüthrich, participants at the Conference on My goal with this article is to provide guid-Synthetic Controls and Related Methods at MIT/IDSS, ance for empirical practice to researchers NeurIPS 2019, the Chamberlain Online Seminar, Steven



Durlauf (the editor), and five referees for insightful com- employing synthetic control methods. With ments, and Kevin Li for expert research assistance. NSF this goal in mind, I put special emphasis on support through grant SES-1756692 is gratefully acknowl- feasibility, data requirements, contextual edged. Some fragments of this article build on an internal



document previously commissioned by the Inter-American requirements, and methodological issues Development Bank. related to the empirical application of syn- † Go to https://doi.org/10.1257/jel.20191450 to visit the thetic controls. Particularly important is article page and view author disclosure statement(s).



391





392 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)




characterizing the practical settings where (Cunningham and Shah 2018), immigration

synthetic controls may be useful and those policy (Bohn, Lofstrom, and Raphael 2014),

where they may fail. corporate political connections (Acemoglu

Section 2 briefly introduces the ideas et al. 2016), taxation (Kleven, Landais, and

behind the synthetic control methodology Saez 2013), organized crime (Pinotti 2015),

in the context of comparative case studies. and many other key policy issues. They have

Section 3 discusses some of the formal aspects also been adopted as the main tool for data

of the synthetic control methodology that are analysis across different sides of the issues in

of particular interest for empirical applica- recent prominent debates on the effects of

tions. Readers who are already familiar with immigration (Borjas 2017, Peri and Yasenov

the synthetic control methodology may only 2019) and minimum wages (Allegretto et al.

need to read subsections 3.3 to 3.5 in detail, 2017, Jardim et al. 2017, Neumark and

and skim through section 2 and the rest of Wascher 2017, Reich et al. 2017). Synthetic

section 3 in order to acquaint themselves with controls are also applied outside econom-

terms and notation that will be employed in ics: in the social sciences, biomedical disci-

later sections. Sections 4 through 6 comprise plines, engineering, etc. (see, e.g., Heersink,

the core of the article. Section 4 discusses the Peterson, and Jenkins 2017; Pieters et al.

practical advantages of synthetic control esti- 2017). Outside academia, synthetic controls

mators. Sections 5 and 6 discuss contextual have found considerable coverage in the

and data requirements for synthetic control popular press (see, e.g., Guo 2015, Douglas

empirical studies. I discuss the validity of these 2018) and have been widely adopted by mul-

requirements in applied settings and potential tilateral organizations, think tanks, business

ways to adapt the research design when the analytics units, governmental agencies, and

requirements do not hold in practice. Section consulting firms. For example, the synthetic

7 describes robustness and diagnostic checks control method plays a prominent role in the

to evaluate the credibility of a synthetic con- official evaluation of the effects of the massive

trol counterfactual and to measure the extent Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation’s Intensive

to which results are sensitive to changes in the Partnerships for Effective Teaching program

study design. Section 8 discusses extensions (Gutierrez, Weinberger, and Engberg 2016).

and recent proposals. The final section con- Synthetic control methods were originally

tains conclusions and describes open areas for proposed in Abadie and Gardeazabal (2003)

research on synthetic controls. and Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller

(2010) with the aim to estimate the effects



2. of aggregate interventions, that is, interven- A Primer on Synthetic Control tions that are implemented at an aggregate Estimators level affecting a small number of large units

In a recent Journal of Economic Perspectives (such as a cities, regions, or countries), on

survey on the econometrics of policy eval- some aggregate outcome of interest. More

uation, Susan Athey and Guido Imbens recently, synthetic control methods have describe synthetic controls as “arguably the been applied to settings with a large num-

most important innovation in the policy eval- 1 ber of units. We will discuss this and other uation literature in the last 15 years” (Athey extensions in section 8. and Imbens 2017). In the last few years, syn-



thetic controls have been applied to study 1 See, for example, Acemoglu et al. (2016), Kreif et al. the effects of right-to-carry laws (Donohue, (2016), Abadie and L’Hour (2019), and Dube and Zipperer Aneja, and Weber 2019), legalized prostitution (2015).





Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 393




Consider a setting where one aggregate between the unit exposed to treatment and a

unit, such as a state or a school district, is group of units that are similar to the exposed

exposed to an event or intervention of inter- unit but were not affected by the treatment.

est. For example, Abadie, Diamond, and This can be achieved whenever the evolu-

Hainmueller (2010) study the effect of a large tion of the outcomes for the unit affected by

tobacco control program adopted in California the intervention and the comparison units is

in 1988, and Bifulco, Rubenstein, and Sohn driven by common factors that induce a sub-

(2017) evaluate the effects of an educational stantial amount of co-movement. program adopted in the Syracuse, New York, Comparative case studies have long been

school district in 2008. In accordance with applied to the evaluation of large-scale events

the program evaluation literature in econom- or aggregate interventions. For example, to

ics, the terms “treated” and “untreated” will estimate the effects of the massive arrival of

refer to units exposed and not exposed to the Cuban expatriates to Miami during the 1980

event or intervention of interest, respectively. Mariel boatlift on native unemployment in

I will use the terms “event,” “intervention,” Miami, Card (1990) compares the evolution

and “treatment” interchangeably. Traditional of native unemployment in Miami at the

regression analysis techniques require large time of the boatlift to the average evolution

samples and many observed instances of the of native unemployment in four other cit-

event or intervention of interest and, as a ies in the United States. Similarly, Card and

result, they are often ill-suited to estimate the Krueger (1994) use Pennsylvania as a com-

effects of infrequent events, such as policy parison to estimate the effects of an increase

interventions, on aggregate units. Economists in the New Jersey minimum wage on employ-

have approached the estimation of the effects ment in fast food restaurants in New Jersey.

of large-scale but infrequent interventions A drawback of comparative case studies of

using time-series analysis and comparative this type is that the selection of the compar-

case studies. Single-unit time-series analysis ison units is not formalized and often relies

is an effective tool to study the short-term on informal statements of affinity between

effects of policy interventions in cases when the units affected by the event or interven-

we expect short-term effects to be of a sub- tion of interest and a set of comparison units.

stantial magnitude.2 However, the use of Moreover, when the units of observation are a

time-series techniques to estimate medium small number of aggregate entities, like coun-

and long-term effects of policy intervention tries or regions, no single unit alone may pro-

is complicated by the presence of shocks to vide a good comparison for the unit affected

the outcome of interest, aside from the effect by the intervention. of the intervention. Comparative case stud- The synthetic control method is based on

ies are based on the idea that the effect of an the idea that, when the units of observation

intervention can be inferred by comparing the are a small number of aggregate entities, a

evolution of the outcome variables of interest combination of unaffected units often pro-

vides a more appropriate comparison than

any single unaffected unit alone. The syn-



ularly relevant in the context of policy evaluation. See, for 2 The literature on “interrupted time-series” is partic- thetic control methodology formalizes the selection of the comparison units using a example, Cook and Campbell (1979), which discusses the data driven procedure. As we will discuss limitations of this methodology if interventions are gradual



rather than abrupt and/or if the causal effect of an inter- later, this formalization also opens the door vention is delayed in time. Interrupted time-series meth- to a mode of quantitative inference for com- ods are closely related to regression-discontinuity design parative case studies. techniques (see, e.g., Thistlethwaite and Campbell 1960).





394 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)




3. Formal Aspects of the Synthetic Control intervention of interest for the affected unit

Method in period t (with t > T0 ) is:



3.1 (1) τ1t = I N The Setting Y 1 t − Y 1 t .



units: j = 1, 2, … , J + 1 . Without loss of gen- intervention after period T0 , it follows that I erality, we assume that the first unit ( Suppose that we obtain data for J + 1 Because unit “one” is exposed to the

j = for t > 1 ) T0 we have Y1t = Y1t . Simply put, for

is the treated unit, that is, the unit affected the unit affected by the intervention and a

by the policy intervention of interest.3 The post-intervention period we observe the



comparisons, j = 2, … , J + 1 is a collec- The great policy evaluation challenge is N “donor pool,” that is, the set of potential potential outcome under the intervention.

tion of untreated units not affected by the to estimate Y 1t for t > T0 : how the outcome intervention. We assume also that our data of interest would have evolved for the

span T periods and that the first T 0 periods affected unit in the absence of the interven-are before the intervention. For each unit, j , tion. This is a counterfactual outcome, as the



est, Y jt . For each unit, j , we also observe a set the intervention of interest after t = T0 . As I and time, t , we observe the outcome of inter- affected unit was, by definition, exposed to

of k predictors of the outcome, X 1j , … , Xkj , equation (1) makes clear, given that Y1t is which may include pre-intervention values observed, the problem of estimating the



of Y jt and which are themselves unaffected effect of a policy intervention is equivalent N by the intervention. The k × 1 vec-to the problem of estimating Y 1 t . Notice also

tors X 1 , … , X J+1 contain the values of the that equation (1) allows the effect of the



tively. The k × J matrix, X 0 = X 2 ⋯ X [ J+1 , cial because intervention effects may not be ] collects the values of the predictors for the predictors for units j = 1, … , J + 1 , respec- intervention to change over time. This is cru-

J instantaneous and may accumulate or dissi-

untreated units. For each unit, j , and time pate as time after the intervention passes.

period, N t , we will define Y to be the poten-



unit affected by the intervention, j = 1 , and Comparative case studies aim to repro- N a post-intervention period, t > T 0 , we will duce Y 1 t —that is, the value of the outcome I tial response without intervention. For the jt 3.2 Estimation

the intervention. define Y 1t to be the potential response under variable that would have been observed 4 Then, the effect of the for the affected unit in the absence of the

intervention—using one unaffected unit

or a small number of unaffected units that

3 The synthetic control framework can easily accom- have similar characteristics as the affected

modate estimation with multiple treated units by fitting unit at the time of the intervention. When



separate synthetic controls for each of the treated units. the data consist of a few aggregate entities, In practice, however, estimation with several treated units such as regions or countries, it is often dif- may carry some practical complications that are discussed ficult to find a single unaffected unit that in section 8. I 4 N Y 1 t and Y jt are the potential outcomes of Rubin’s provides a suitable comparison for the unit model for causal inference (see, e.g., Rubin 1974, Holland affected by the policy intervention of inter- 1986). To simplify notation, I exclude the start time of est. As mentioned above, the synthetic con- I the intervention from the notation for Y 1 t . Notice, how- I ever, that the value of Y 1 t depends in general not only on trol method is based on the observation that when the intervention starts, but also other features of the a combination of units in the donor pool intervention that are fixed in our analysis and, therefore, may approximate the characteristics of the excluded from the notation.





Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 395




affected unit substantially better than any ˆ N of interest, Y 1 t , and the contribution of each unaffected unit alone. A synthetic control is unit is represented by its synthetic control

defined as a weighted average of the units in weight. Because synthetic control weights

the donor pool. Formally, a synthetic con- define a weighted average and because they



weights, W = w , … , w ( 2J+1 ′ . Given a set of control counterfactual estimate is partic-) weights, W , the synthetic control estimators trol can be represented by a J × 1 vector of are sparse, the specific nature of a synthetic

ularly transparent, relative to competing

of N Y and τ are, respectively: methods. Notice also that considering syn-1t 1t

J+1 thetic controls with weights that sum to one



(2) ˆ N may be warranted only if the variables in the Y 1 t = ∑ w j Y jt , j = 2 data are rescaled to correct for differences in size between units (e.g., per capita income)

and or if such correction is not needed because

the variables in the data do not scale with

(3) ˆ τ ˆ 1 t = − N Y 1 t Y 1 t. size (e.g., prices).

As an example, a synthetic control that

To avoid extrapolation, the weights are assigns equal weights, w j = 1 / J , to each of

restricted to be nonnegative and to sum the units in the control group results in the

to one, so synthetic controls are weighted following estimator for τ1t : averages of the units in the donor pool.



nonnegative and no greater than one can (4) τ _ ˆ 1 t = Y 1 t − 1 ∑ Yjt . J The requirement that weights should be J+1 be relaxed at the cost of allowing extrapo- j=2 lation. For example, Abadie, Diamond, and

Hainmueller (2015) show that, in the context In this case, the synthetic control is the sim-

of estimating the effect of a policy interven- ple average of all the units in the donor pool.

tion, there is a regression estimator that can A population-weighted version is



the sum of the weights is equal to one. By not τ ˆ 1t = Y1t − ∑ wj Yjt , j = 2 restricting the weights to be in 0, 1 , regres-[ ] 5 sion allows extrapolation. weights that are unrestricted except for that J+1 pop (5) be represented as a synthetic control with

thetic control weights to be nonnegative and Restricting syn- pop where w j is the population in unit j (e.g., sum to one generates synthetic controls that at the time of the intervention) as a fraction

are weighted averages of the outcomes of of the total population in the donor pool. If,

units in the donor pool, with weights that are however, a single unit, m , in the donor pool

typically sparse (see section 4). That is, only a is used as a comparison, then wm = 1 , wj = 0 small number of units in the donor pool con- for j ≠ m , and tribute to the estimate of the counterfactual

(6) τ ˆ 1t = Y1t − Ymt .



5 See section 4 for details. Doudchenko and Imbens For nearest-neighbor estimators, m is the

weight restrictions as regularization devices. Doudchenko index value that minimizes (2016), Ferman (2019), and Li (2020) discuss the role of ∥ X 1 − X j∥

and Imbens (2016) and Chernozhukov, Wüthrich, and Zhu for some norm ∥ ⋅ ∥ . (2019a) propose alternative regularization procedures for over j synthetic controls based on the elastic net and the lasso, Expressing the comparison unit as a syn-

respectively. thetic control motivates the question of 396 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)





how the weights, w 2 , … , wJ+1 , should be can be determined by minimizing equation chosen in practice. Abadie and (7), subject to the restriction that the weights


Gardeazabal (2003) and Abadie, Diamond, in W (V) are positive and sum to one. and Hainmueller (2010) propose to Of course, a question remains about how

choose w 2 , … , wJ to choose V . A simple selector of v + 1 so that the resulting h is the synthetic control best resembles the inverse of the variance of X h1 , … , XhJ+1, pre-intervention values for the treated unit which in effect rescales all rows of X [ 1 : X 0] of predictors of the outcome variable. That is, to have unit variance. Alternatively, Abadie

given a set of nonnegative constants, v1 , … , vk , and Gardeazabal (2003) and Abadie, Abadie and Gardeazabal (2003) and Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller (2010)



pose to choose the synthetic control, W (V) minimizes the mean squared predic-⁎ ⁎ ⁎ W Diamond, and Hainmueller (2010) pro- choose V , such that the synthetic control (7) = w , … , w ′ that minimizes ( 2 J tion error (MSPE) of this synthetic control + 1 ) N with respect to Y 1 t : ∥ X 1 − X 0 W ∥ 2 ∑



= ∑ v X X − ⋯ ( h ( h 1 − w 2 h 2 for some set h  0 ⊆ 1, 2, … , T {0 of pre- = 1 } intervention periods. Abadie, Diamond, 1 / 2 and Hainmueller (2015) propose a related k (Y1t − w2(V)Y2t − ⋯− wJ , + 1 ( V ) Y J + 1 t ) t ∈  0



− 2 w J + 1 X hJ + 1 )) method to choose v1 , … , vk via out-of-sample validation. The ideas behind out-of-sample



subject to the restriction that w2 , … , wJ +1 are validation selection of v1 , … , vk are described 6 nonnegative and sum to one. Then, the esti-next. The goal of the synthetic control is to mated treatment effect for the treated unit at approximate the trajectory that would have

time t = T0 + 1, … , T is been observed for Y1t and t > T0 in the



(8) J absence of the intervention. For that pur- + 1 pose, the synthetic control method selects ⁎ τ ˆ 1 t = Y 1 t − ∑ w j Y jt . a set of weights W such that the resulting j = 2 synthetic control resembles the affected

The positive constants v 1 , … , vk in (7) reflect unit before the intervention along the val-the relative importance of the synthetic con- ues of the variables X 11 , … , Xk1 . The ques-



predictors for the treated unit, X 11 , … , Xk1 . For to assessing the relative importance of N a given set of weights, trol reproducing the values of each of the k tion of choosing V = (v1 , … , vk) boils down

v1 , … , vk , minimizing each of X11 , … , Xk1 as a predictor of Y1t .

equation (7) can be easily accomplished That is, the value v h aims to reflect the rel-using constrained quadratic optimiza- ative importance of approximating the value

tion. That is, each potential choice of N of X for predicting Y in the post-intervention

V N ( v , … , v ) produces a synthetic con-period, t = T + 1, … , T . Because Y is not = h1 1t

trol, W( 1 k 0 1t V) = ( w2(V) , … , wJ+1(V) ′ )

, which observed for t = T0 + 1, … , T, we cannot

directly evaluate the relative importance of

fitting each predictor to approximate N Y in

1t

6 N For the sake of expositional simplicity, I discuss only the post-intervention period. However, Y

1t



the normalized Euclidean norm in equation (7). Of course, is observed for the pre-intervention peri-other norms are possible. Also, to avoid notational clut-ods t = 1, 2, … , T 0 , so it is possible to use ter, dependence of the norm in equation (7) from the pre-intervention data to assess the predictive weights v 1 , … , v k is left implicit in the notation.





Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 397




power on N Y of the variables X , … , X . This This is a heuristic procedure, and one that



can be accomplished in the following manner. 1t 1j kj ⁎ is useful only as long as it produces V , such 1. Divide the that ⁎ ⁎ Y 1 t ≈ w ̃ 2 (V ) Y 2 t + ⋯ + w ̃ J (V Y + 1 ) J+1t ⁎ pre-intervention periods

into a initial for t = t 0 + 1, … , T 0 , and X 1 ≈ X 0 W for the ⁎ training period and a set of predictors used to calculate W .

subsequent validation period. For To give sharpness to the discussion of the

simplicity and concreteness, we properties and practical implementation

will assume that T 0 is even and the of synthetic control estimators I will refer, training and validation periods span as a running example, to an application in

t = 1, …, t0 and t = t0 + 1, …, T0, Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller (2015), respectively, with t0 = T0 / 2 . In practice, which estimates the effect of the 1990 the lengths of the training and valida- German reunification on per capita GDP

tion periods may depend on applica- in West Germany. In this application, the

tion-specific factors, such as the extent intervention is the 1990 German reunifica-

of data availability on outcomes in the tion and the treated unit is the former West

pre-intervention and post-intervention Germany. The donor pool consists a set of

periods, and the specific times when industrialized countries, and X 1 and X 0 col-the predictors are measured in the data. lect prereunification values of predictors of

economic growth. Figure 1, panel A, com-

2. For every value V , let w ̃ 2 (V) , … , w ̃ J+1(V) pares the trajectory of per capita GDP before

be the synthetic control weights com- and after the reunification for West Germany

puted with training period data on the and a simple average of the countries in the

predictors. The MSPE of this synthetic donor pool, for the years 1960–2003. This

control with respect to N Y in the valida- is the comparison in equation (4). Average

1t

tion period is per capita GDP among the countries in the



3. Select a value V (9) T donor pool fails to reproduce the trajec- 0 tory of per capita GDP for West Germany ∑ ( Y 1 t − w ̃ 2 ( V ) Y 2 t − ⋯ t = t 0 + 1 even before the reunification takes place in 1990. Moreover, the restriction of parallel 2 − w ̃ J + 1 ( V ) Y J + 1 t ) . trends required for difference-in-differences models (see, e.g., Abadie 2005, Angrist ⁎ ∈  such that the and Pischke 2009) fails to hold in the  MSPE in equation (9) is small, where pre-intervention data. Figure 1, panel B,

is a set of potential values for V. reports the trajectory of per capita GDP for

West Germany and for a synthetic control

4. Use the resulting V ⁎ and data on the pre- calculated in the manner explained in this



the intervention, t = T0 − t0 + 1, … , T0, average of the countries in the donor pool ⁎ dictors for the last t0 periods before in section. This figure shows that a weighted

to calculate W ⁎ = W ( 7 V ) . is able to closely approximate the trajectory

of per capita GDP for West Germany before

the German reunification.

7 As discussed in Klößner et al. (2018), cross-validation Moreover, the synthetic control of fig-

weights are not always unique. That is, minimization of ure 1, panel B, closely reproduces the

equation (9) may not have a unique solution. In principle,

this could be dealt with via penalization (e.g., adding a term

γ ∑k 2 h 0 to equation (9), which favors should aim to demonstrate that their results are not overly = 1 v m for some γ >

dense sets of weights). In practice, however, researchers sensitive to particular choices of V .





398 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)




Panel A Panel B



30,000 30,000



20,000 20,000



10,000 10,000

5,000 5,000

Per Capita GDP (PPP 2002 USD) Per Capita GDP (PPP 2002 USD) 0 0

1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000

Year Year

West Germany OECD Synthetic West Germany



Figure 1. Synthetic Control Estimation in the German Reunification Example



Notes: Panel A compares the evolution of per capita GDP in West Germany to the evolution of per capita GDP for a simple average of OECD countries. In panel B the comparison is with a synthetic control calcu-lated in the manner explained in subsection 3.2. See Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller (2015) for details.



prereunification values of economic growth to the value of the predictors for West

predictors for West Germany. In columns 1 Germany.

to 4, table 1 reports the value of economic Table 2 relays the identities and contribu-

growth predictors for West Germany, X 1, tions of each of the units in the donor pool for the synthetic control, X ⁎ 0 W , for the sim- to the synthetic control for West Germany. ple average of the units in the donor pool as Austria carries the largest weight, with the

in equation (4), and for the single compar- United States, Japan, Switzerland, and the

ison estimator of equation (6), where m is Netherlands also contributing to the synthetic

the index of the nearest neighbor in terms control with weights in decreasing order. The

of the values of the predictors in X 1 (see rest of the countries in the donor pool do not table 1 note for details). The results in table contribute to the synthetic control for West

1 illustrate the potential benefit in terms Germany. As we will see later, the sparsity of

of the fit of the covariates from using syn- the weights in table 2 is typical of synthetic

thetic control methods in studies with a control estimators, and is a consequence of

few comparison units in the donor pool. the geometric characteristics of the solution

While the simple average of the countries to the optimization problem that generates

in the OECD sample and the nearest neigh- synthetic controls.



bor both fail to reproduce the economic 3.3 Bias Bound growth predictors for West Germany prior to the reunification, a synthetic control Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller

provides a rather accurate approximation (2010) study the bias properties of synthetic





Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 399




TABLE 1

Economic Growth Predictor Means before the German Reunification

West Germany Synthetic West Germany OECD average Austria (nearest neighbor)

(1) (2) (3) (4)

GDP per capita 15,808.9 15,802.2 13,669.4 14,817.0 Trade openness 56.8 56.9 59.8 74.6 Inflation rate 2.6 3.5 7.6 3.5 Industry share 34.5 34.4 33.8 35.5 Schooling 55.5 55.2 38.7 60.9 Investment rate 27.0 27.0 25.9 26.6



Note: ⁎ The first column reports X 1 , the second column reports X 0 W , the third column reports a simple average of X j for the 16 OECD countries in the donor pool, and the last column reports the value of X for the nearest neighbor j of West Germany in terms of predictors values. GDP per capita, inflation rate, and trade openness are averages for the 1981–90 period. Industry share (of value added) is the average for 1981–89. Schooling is the average for 1980 and 1985. Investment rate is averaged over 1980–84. See Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller (2015) for variable definitions and sources. The nearest neighbor in column 4 minimizes the Euclidean norm of the pairwise differences between the values of the predictors for West Germany and for each of the countries in the donor pool, after resca-ling the predictors to have unit variance.



TABLE 2

Synthetic Control Weights for West Germany

Australia — Austria 0.42 Belgium — Denmark — France — Greece — Italy — Japan 0.16 Netherlands 0.09 New Zealand — Norway — Portugal — Spain — Switzerland 0.11 United Kingdom — United States 0.22



controls estimators for the cases when N Y is control estimator is unbiased for a vector

1t

generated by (i) a linear factor model, or (ii) autoregressive model, and provide a bias

a vector autoregressive model. 8 They show bound for a linear factor model. Here, I will

that, under some conditions, the synthetic restrict the exposition to the linear factor



process involve 8 Notice that the assumptions on the data-generating estimation of τ1t for t > T0 requires no assumptions on the N I I Y jt , but not Y 1 t . Since Y 1 t = I Y 1 t is observed, process that generates Y 1 t .

400 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)



model, which can be seen as a generalization outcomes). Then the bias of τ ˆ it is controlled of difference in differences. Consider the by the ratio between the scale of the indi-

following linear factor model for N Y , vidual transitory shocks, ε , and the number jt it

N of pre-intervention periods, T 0 . The intu-

(10) Y jt = δt + θt Z j + λt μj + εjt , ition behind this result is rather immediate.

Under the factor model in equation (10), a



tors of observed and unobserved predic- ues Z 1 and μ1 would provide an unbiased N tors of Y jt , respectively, with coefficients θ t estimator of the treatment effect for the ⁎ where δt is a time trend, Z j and μj are vec- synthetic control that reproduces the val-and λt , and εjt is zero mean individual tran- treated. If X 1 = X 0 W , then the synthetic sitory shocks. In the time-series literature in control matches the value of Z 1 . On the econometrics, θt and λt are referred to as com- other hand, μ1 is not observed, so it cannot mon factors, and Z j and μj as factor loadings. be matched directly in the data. However, The term δt is a common factor with constant a synthetic control that reproduces the val-loadings across units, while λt represents a ues of Z 1 but fails to reproduce the values set of common factors with varying loadings of μ1 can only provide a close match for across units. A difference-in-differences/ the pretreatment outcomes if differences

fixed effects panel model can be obtained in the values of the individual transitory

from equation (10) by restricting λt to be shocks between the treated and the syn-time invariant, so λ t = λ (see Bai 2009). thetic controls compensate for the differ-

This has the effect of restricting the mean ences in unobserved factor loadings. This

outcomes of units with the same values for is unlikely to happen when the scale of the

the observed predictors, Z j = z , to follow transitory shocks, εit , is small or the num-parallel trends, δt + θt z + λμj . A linear fac- ber of pretreatment periods, T0 , is large. In tor model provides a useful extension to the contrast, a small number of pre-intervention

difference-in-differences/fixed effects panel periods combined with enough variation in

data models by allowing N Y to depend on the unobserved transitory shocks may result

multiple unobserved components, μj jt

, with in a close match for pretreatment outcomes

coefficients, λ t , that change in time. In con- even if the synthetic control does not closely trast to difference in differences, the linear match the values of μ1 . This is a form of factor model does not impose parallel mean over-fitting and a potential source of bias.

outcome trends for units with the same val- ⁎ In practice, the condition X 1 = X 0 W

ues for Z j. is replaced by the approximate ver-

Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller (2010) ⁎ sion X 1 ≈ X 0 W . It is important to notice, provide a characterization of the bias of the however, that for any particular data set there

synthetic control estimator for the case when are not ex ante guarantees on the size of the

the synthetic control reproduces the charac- ⁎ difference X 1 − X 0 W . When this difference teristics of the treated unit. Let X 1 be the vec- is large, Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller tor that includes Z 1 and the pre-intervention (2010) recommend against the use of syn-outcomes for the treated unit, and thetic controls because of the potential for



variables for the untreated units. Suppose ⁎ equation (10), obtaining a good fit X 1 ≈ X 0 W ⁎ let X 0 be the matrix that collects the same substantial biases. For the factor model in

that X 1 = X 0 W , that is, the synthetic con- when X 1 and X 0 include pre-intervention ⁎ trol represented by W , is able to repro-outcomes typically requires that the vari-duce the characteristics of the treated unit ance of the transitory shock is small (see

(including the values of the pre-intervention Ferman and Pinto 2019). Moreover, because





Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 401




the bias bound depends inversely on N T , more general ( nonlinear) process for Y . If

0 it

one could erroneously conclude that under N the process that determines Y is nonlinear

it

the factor model in equation (10), the syn- in the attributes of the units, even a close fit

thetic control estimator is unbiased as T0 by a synthetic control, which is a weighted goes to infinity. However, the bias bound in average, could potentially result in large

Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller (2010) interpolation biases.

is derived under X ⁎ 1 = X 0 W , and its practi- A practical implication of the discussion cal relevance depends on the ability of the in the previous paragraph is that each of the

synthetic control to reproduce the trajectory units in the donor pool have to be chosen judi-



biases may persist as T 0 → ∞ , unless the treated unit. Including in the donor pool units ⁎ of the outcome for the treated unit. Sizable ciously to provide a reasonable control for the

quality of the fit, X 1 − X 0 W , is good. That is, that are regarded by the analyst to be unsuit-the ability of a synthetic control to reproduce able controls (because of large discrepancies

the trajectory of the outcome variable for the in the values of their observed attributes Z j or

treated unit over an extended period of time, because of suspected large differences in the

as in figure 1 panel B, provides an indication values of the unobserved attributes μj relative of low bias. However, a large T 0 cannot drive to the treated unit) is a recipe for bias. down the bias if the fit is bad. In practice, There are other factors that contribute

synthetic controls may not perfectly fit the to the bias bound in Abadie, Diamond, and

characteristics of the treated units. Section 7 Hainmueller (2010). In particular, the value

discusses a backdating exercise that can of the bound increases with the number on

often be used to obtain an indication of the unobserved factors, that is, the number of

size and direction of the bias arising from components in μj . The dependence of the imperfect fit. bias bound on the number of unobserved

The risk of over-fitting may also increase factors is relevant for the discussion on the

with the size of the donor pool, especially choice of predictors for the synthetic control

when T0 is small. For any fixed T0 , a larger J method in the next subsection.



makes it easier to fit pretreatment outcomes 3.4 Variable Selection even when there are substantial discrepan-cies in factor loadings between the treated A synthetic control provides a predic-

unit and the synthetic control. Consistent N tor of Y for t > T , the potential outcome 1t 0

with this argument, the bias bound without the intervention for the treated units

for τ ˆ 1t derived in Abadie, Diamond, and in a post-intervention period. Like for any Hainmueller (2010) depends positively on J . other prediction procedure, the choice of

Under a factor model for N Y , a large num- predictors (in X and X for synthetic con-

it 1 0

ber of units in the donor pool may create or trol estimators) is a fundamental part of the

exacerbate the bias of the synthetic control estimation task. This subsection discusses



estimator, especially if the values of μj in the variable selection in the synthetic control 9 donor pool greatly differ from μ 1 . Moreover, method. To aid the discussion of the differ-the factor model in equation (10) should be ent issues involved in variable selection for

interpreted only as an approximation to a synthetic controls, I will employ the con-

cepts and notation of the linear factor model

framework of subsection 3.3. Predictor vari-



tings, as demonstrated in Ferman (2019), who shows that 9 A large J may be beneficial in high-dimensional set- ables in X 1 and X 0 typically include both pre-intervention values of the outcome vari-under certain conditions synthetic control estimators may able as well as other predictors, Z asymptotically unbiased as T 0 → ∞ and J → ∞ . j . 402 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)



Pre-intervention values of the outcome controlled by the number of predictors in X 1

variable, which are naturally available in panel and X 0 , and sparse synthetic controls (that is, data settings, play a crucial role in reproduc- synthetic controls made of a small number of

ing the unobserved factor loadings in μ j in comparison units) are easy to interpret and the linear factor model of subsection 3.3. evaluate. They also arise organically as predictors for Part of the literature on synthetic controls

the synthetic control estimators under a vec- emphasizes estimators that depend only on

tor autoregression model for the process that pre-intervention outcomes and ignore the

generates the data (see Abadie, Diamond, information of other predictors, Zj . This and Hainmueller 2010). The credibility of reliance on pre-intervention outcomes only,

a synthetic control estimator depends on its while adopted in many cases for technical

ability to track the trajectory of the outcome or expositional convenience, may create the

variable for the treated unit for an extended mistaken impression that other predictors

pre-intervention period. Provided that a good play a minor role in synthetic control estima-

fit for pre-intervention outcomes is attained, tors. Notice, however, that in equation (10),

the researcher has some flexibility in the covariates excluded from Z j are mechanically way pre-intervention outcomes are incor- absorbed into μ j , which increases the num-porated in X 1 and X 0 . Consider the German ber of components of μj and, therefore, the reunification application of subsection 3.2. bound on the bias as discussed in the pre-

As reported in table 1, the set of predictors vious subsection. By excluding Z j from the in X 1 and X 0 includes average per capita GDP set of predictors in X 1 and X 0 , not only do in 1981–90, and no other pre-intervention we aim to implicitly match the values of μj

outcome. Notice, however, that the resulting through their effects on the pre-intervention

synthetic control is able to track the trajectory outcomes, but also the values of Z j . of per capita GDP for West Germany for the Data-driven methods for variable selec-

entire 1960–90 pre-intervention period. This tion evaluate the predictive power of alter-

happens because per capita GDP figures for native sets of predictors. This can be done

OECD countries strongly co-move in time in the synthetic control method framework

across countries. This co-movement of the by measuring the predictive power of alter-

outcome variable of interest across the differ- native sets of variables. The procedure

ent units in the data is exactly what synthetic divides the pre-intervention periods into

controls are designed to exploit. It makes an initial training period and a subsequent

it possible to match the entire trajectory of validation period. Synthetic control weights

GDP per capita for West Germany by fitting are computed using data from the training

only the average level of GDP per capita in period only. The validation period can then

the 1981–90 period. Given this premise, one be used to evaluate the predictive power of

potential advantage from using a summary the resulting synthetic control. This proce-

measure of prereunification GDP per capita dure can be used to select predictors or to

to calculate the synthetic control for West evaluate the predictive power of a given set

Germany (as opposed to, say, including all of predictors as in section 7. Section 7 dis-

ten different annual values of GDP per capita cusses how to assess the robustness of the

for 1981–90 as predictors) resides in a higher results to alternative sets of predictors. sparsity of the resulting synthetic control. As Finally, it is worth noting that post-

will be discussed in section 4 below, the num- intervention outcomes are not used in the

ber of units in the donor pool that carry posi- calculation of synthetic control weights. This

tive weights in a synthetic control estimator is property of synthetic control methods can be

Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 403



exploited to provide guarantees against the ˆ N where Y jt is the outcome on period t pro-use of results to guide specification searches. duced by a synthetic control when unit j is

This is because synthetic control weights can coded as treated and using all other J units be calculated using pre-intervention data to construct the donor pool. This is the root

only in the design phase of the study, before mean squared prediction error (RMSPE)

post-intervention outcomes are observed of the synthetic control estimator for

or realized. Section 4 discusses this issue in unit j and time periods t 1 , … , t2 . The ratio more detail. between the post-intervention RMSPE and

pre-intervention RMSPE for unit j is



3.5 Inference (12) ___________ Rj(T0 + 1, T) r Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller j = . R

j 0 ( 1, T)

(2010) propose a mode of inference for the

synthetic control framework that is based on That is, r j measures the quality of the permutation methods. In its simpler version, fit of a synthetic control for unit j in the the effect on the intervention is estimated posttreatment period, relative to the quality

separately for each of the units in the sample. of the fit in the pretreatment period. Abadie,

Consider the case with a single treated unit, Diamond, and Hainmueller (2010) use the

as in subsection 3.1. A permutation distribu- permutation distribution of rj for inference. tion can be obtained by iteratively reassign- An alternative solution to the problem of poor

ing the treatment to the units in the donor pretreatment fit in the donor pool is to base

pool and estimating “placebo effects” in each inference on the distribution Rj(T0 + 1, T) iteration. Then, the permutation distribution after discarding those placebo runs with

is constructed by pooling the effect estimated R j(1, T0) substantially larger than R1(1, T0) for the treated unit together with placebo (see Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller

effects estimated for the units in the donor 2010). pool. The effect of the treatment on the unit A p -value for the inferential procedure

affected by the intervention is deemed sig- based on the permutation distribution of r j,

nificant when its magnitude is extreme rela- as described above, is given by tive to the permutation distribution.



cedure is that, even if a synthetic control is _ p = 1 ∑ I+ One potential complication with this pro- J+1 J (r − j r1 , ) + able to closely fit the trajectory of the out- 1 j =1

come variable for the treated unit before the

intervention, the same may not be true for all where I+( ⋅ ) is an indicator function that the units in the donor pool. For this reason, returns one for nonnegative arguments and

Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller (2010) zero otherwise. While p -values are often propose a test statistic that measures the used to summarize the results of testing



the pre-intervention fit. For 0 ≤ t1 ≤ t2 ≤ T of the test statistics, r j , or of the placebo ˆ ratio of the post-intervention fit relative to procedures, the permutation distribution

and N j = 1, … , J + 1 , let gaps, Y { } − Y , are easy to report/visualize jt jt

and provide additional information on (e.g.,



(11) R j(t1 , t2) on the magnitude of the differences between = t 1 the estimated treatment effect on the treated / 2 2 2 unit and the placebo gaps in the donor pool). _

( 1 ∑ ˆ N Y Y ( jt − jt , ) t 2 − t 1 + 1 t = t 1 ) Confidence intervals can be constructed by 404 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)





test inversion (see, e.g., Firpo and Possebom nature of a placebo intervention. Consider,


2018). for example, the 1990 German reunifica-



or their positive or negative parts, Replacing ˆ N Y jt − Y jt in R(T0 + tion application in Abadie, Diamond, and 1, T ) with + ˆ N Hainmueller (2015). In that context, it would Y Y ( jt − jt ) − be difficult to articulate the nature of the ˆ N Y ( jt − Y jt , leads to one-sided infer-) assignment mechanism or even describe pla-ence. One-sided inference may result in cebo interventions. (France would reunify a substantial of gain of power. 10 This is an with whom?) Moreover, even if a plausible important consideration in many compara-assignment mechanism exists, estimation of tive case study settings, where samples are the assignment mechanism is often hope-considerably small. Alternative test statistics less because many comparative case studies (see, e.g., Firpo and Possebom 2018) could feature a single or a small number of treated potentially be used to direct power to spe-units. cific sets of alternatives. It is important to note that the availabil-

As discussed in Abadie, Diamond, and ity of a well-defined procedure to select

Hainmueller (2010) this mode of inference the comparison unit, like the one provided

reduces to classical randomization inference by the synthetic control method, makes the

(Fisher 1935) when the intervention is ran- estimation of the effects of placebo inter-

domly assigned, a rather improbable setting, ventions feasible. Without a formal descrip-

especially in contexts with aggregate units. tion of the procedure used to choose the

More generally, this mode of inference eval- comparison for the treated unit, it would be

uates significance relative to a benchmark difficult to reapply the same estimation pro-

distribution for the assignment process, one cedure to the units in the donor pool. In this

that is implemented directly in the data. sense, the formalization of the choice of the

Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller (2010) comparison unit provided by the synthetic

use a uniform benchmark, but one could eas- control method opens the door to a mode of

ily depart from the uniform case. Firpo and quantitative inference in the context of com-

Possebom (2018) propose a sensitivity analy- parative case studies. sis procedure that considers deviations from Another important point to notice is that

the uniform benchmark. the permutation method described in this

Because in most observational settings subsection does not attempt to approximate

assignment to the intervention is not ran- the sampling distributions of test statis-

domized, one could, in principle, adopt tics. Sampling-based statistical tests employ

permutation schemes that incorporate infor- restrictions on the sampling mechanism

mation in the data on the assignment prob- (data-generating process) to derive a distribu-

abilities for the different units in the sample tion of a test statistic in a thought experiment

(as in, e.g., Rosenbaum 1984). However, where alternative samples could have been

in many comparative case studies it is dif- obtained from the sampling mechanism that

ficult to articulate the nature of a plausible generated the data. In a comparative case

assignment mechanism or even the specific study framework, however, sampling-based

inference is complicated—sometimes

because of the absence of a well-defined

10 Notice that, in the presence of a treatment effect on sampling mechanism or data-generating



the treated unit, permutations in which the treated unit process, and sometimes because the sample contributes to the placebo synthetic control will tend to is the same as the population. For example, produce effects of the opposite sign to the effect on the in their study of the effect of terrorism on treated unit, increasing the power of the one-sided test.





Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 405




economic outcomes in Spain, Abadie and reproduce the outcome of the treated unit

Gardeazabal (2003) employ a sample con- in the absence of the intervention. Some

sisting of all Spanish regions. Here, sampling advantages of synthetic controls relative to

is not done at random from a well-defined regression-based counterfactual are listed

super-population. As in classical randomiza- next. tion tests (Fisher 1935), design-based infer-

ence takes care of these complications by No Extrapolation. Synthetic control esti-conditioning on the sample and considering mators preclude extrapolation, because syn-

only the variation in the test statistic that is thetic control weights are nonnegative and

induced by the assignment mechanism (see, sum to one. It is easy to check that, like their

e.g., Abadie et al. 2020).11 synthetic control counterparts, the regres-

sion weights in W reg sum to one. Unlike



In this section, I will describe some advan-4. the synthetic control weights, however, Why Use Synthetic Controls? regression weights may be outside the 0, 1 [ ] interval, allowing extrapolation outside of the

tages of synthetic control estimators rela- support of the data (see Abadie, Diamond,

tive to alternative methods. For the sake of 12 and Hainmueller 2015 for details). Table 3 concreteness and because linear regression reports regression weights for the German

is arguably the most widely applied tool in reunification example. In this application,

empirical research in economics, I emphasize the regression counterfactual utilizes nega-

the differences between synthetic control tive values for four countries. estimators and linear regression estimators.

However, much of the discussion applies Transparency of the Fit. Linear regres-more generally to other estimators of treat- sion uses extrapolation to guarantee a



ment effects. perfect fit of the characteristics of the – – reg A linear regression estimator of the treated unit, X 0 W = X 1 (and, there- reg effect of the treatment can easily be con- fore, X 0 W = X 1 ) even when the untreated

structed using the panel data structure units are completely dissimilar in their char-

described in subsection 3.1. Let Y 0 be the acteristics to the treated unit. In contrast,



comes for the units in the donor pool with actual discrepancy between the treated unit – t , j -element equal to Y ( ) T 0 + t , J + 1 . Let X 1 and the convex combination of untreated – (T − T0) × J matrix of post-intervention out- synthetic controls make transparent the



and X ⁎ 0 , respectively, with a row of ones. For interest, X 1 − X 0 W . This discrepancy is – and X 0 be the result of augmenting X1 units that provides the counterfactual of non-singular X – X ′ , a regression-based esti- equal to the difference between columns 1 mator of the counterfactual N Y for t

– 1t 0 – – – − 0 0 > T is and 2 in table 1. In addition figure 1, panel B,

B ˆ ˆ 1 ′ X 1 , where B = ( X 0 X 0 ′ ) X 0 Y 0 ′ . That is, brings to light the fit of a synthetic control in the regression-based estimator is akin to a terms of pre-intervention outcomes. That is,

synthetic control, as it uses a linear combi- the information in table 1 and figure 1 makes



donor pool, with W 0 – – – – reg − 1 = nation, Y reg W , of the outcomes in the clear the extent to which the observations in

X 0 ′ ( X 0 X 0 ′ ) X 1 , to the donor pool can approximate the char-

acteristics of the treated units by interpola-

tion only. In some applications, comparisons

11 In particular, this is in contrast to the bias bound cal-culations in Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller (2010),

which are performed over the distribution of the individual 12 See King and Zeng (2006) on the dangers of relying transitory shocks, εit. on extrapolation to estimate counterfactuals. 406 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)





TABLE 3


Regression Weights for West Germany

Australia 0.12 Austria 0.26 Belgium 0.00 Denmark 0.08 France 0.04 Greece −0.09 Italy −0.05 Japan 0.19 Netherlands 0.14 New Zealand 0.12 Norway 0.04 Portugal −0.08 Spain −0.01 Switzerland 0.05 United Kingdom 0.06 United States 0.13



like that of columns 1 and 2 of table 1 may synthetic control weights can play a role

reveal that it is not possible to approximate similar to pre-analysis plans in randomized

the characteristics of the treated unit(s) control trials (see, e.g., Olken 2015), provid-

using a weighted average of the units in the ing a safeguard against specification searches

donor pool. In that case, Abadie, Diamond, and p -hacking. and Hainmueller (2010, 2015) advise against

using synthetic controls. Transparency of the Counterfactual.

Synthetic controls make explicit the

Safeguard against Specification Searches. contribution of each comparison unit to

In contrast to regression but similar to clas- the counterfactual of interest. Moreover,

sical matching methods, synthetic controls because the synthetic control coefficients

do not require access to posttreatment out- are proper weights and are sparse (more on

comes in the design phase of the study, when sparsity below), they allow a simple and pre-

synthetic controls are calculated. This implies cise interpretation of the nature of the esti-

that all the data analysis on design decisions mate of the counterfactual of interest. For

like the identity of the units in the donor the application to the effects of the German

pool or the predictors in X 1 and X 0 can be reunification in table 2, the counterfactual made without knowing how they affect the for West Germany is given by a weighted

conclusions of the study (see Rubin 2007 for average of Austria (0.42), Japan (0.16), the

a related discussion regarding matching esti- Netherlands (0.09), Switzerland (0.11), and

mators). Moreover, synthetic control weights the United States (0.22) with weights in

can be calculated and preregistered /pub- parentheses. Simplicity and transparency

licized before the posttreatment outcomes of the counterfactual allows the use of the

are realized, or before the actual interven- expert knowledge to evaluate the validity

tion takes place. That is, preregistration of of a synthetic control and the directions of





Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 407




X1



X W 0 *



Figure 2. Projecting X 1 on the Convex Hull of X 0



potential biases. For instance, smaller neigh- above, sparsity plays an important role for

boring countries to West Germany, such as the interpretation and evaluation of the

Austria, the Netherlands, and Switzerland, estimated counterfactual. The sparsity of

have a substantial weight on the compo- synthetic control weights has an immediate

sition of the synthetic control of table 2. If geometric interpretation. Assume, for now,

economic growth in these countries were that X 1 falls outside the convex hull of the negatively affected by the German reunifica- columns of X 0 . This is typical in empirical tion during the 1990–2003 period (perhaps practice and a consequence of the curse of

because West Germany diverted demand dimensionality. Assume also that the columns

and investment from these countries to East of X 0 are in general position (that is, there Germany), this would imply that figure 1, is no set of m columns, with 2 ≤ m ≤ k + 1 ,

panel B, estimates a lower bound on the that fall into an (m − 2) -dimensional hyper-magnitude (absolute value) of the negative plane). Then, the synthetic control is unique

effect of the German reunification on per and sparse—with the number of nonzero

capita GDP in West Germany. weights bounded by k —as it is the projection

of X 1 on the convex hull of the columns of X 0.

Sparsity. As evidenced in the results of Figure 2 provides a visual representation of

tables 2 and 3, synthetic controls are sparse, the geometric interpretation of the sparsity

but regression weights are not. As discussed property of synthetic control estimators. 408 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)



Only the control observations marked in red for t > T0 . In contrast to the lasso, however, contribute to the synthetic control. the identity and magnitude of nonzero coef-

Notice that table 1 indicates that the syn- ficients constitute important information to

thetic control for West Germany falls close interpret the nature of the estimate and eval-

to but outside the convex hull of the values uate its validity and the potential for biases.

of economic growth predictors in the donor One of the greatest appeals of the syn-

pool (otherwise, columns 1 and 2 would be thetic control method resides, in my opinion,

identical). As a result, the number of nonzero in the interpretability of the estimated coun-

weights in table 2 is not larger than the num- terfactuals, which results from the weighted

ber of variables in table 1. If desired, spar- average nature of synthetic control estima-

sity can be increased by imposing a bound tors and from the sparsity of the weights. on the density (number of nonzero weights) Despite the practical advantages of syn-

of W ⁎ in the calculation of synthetic controls thetic control methods, successful applica-(see Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller tion of synthetic control estimators crucially

2015). depends on important contextual and data

In some cases, especially in applications requirements, which are discussed in the

with many treated units, the values of the next two sections. predictors for some of the treated units may



Then, synthetic controls are not necessarily fall in the convex hull of the columns of X 0. 5. Contextual Requirements unique or sparse. That is, a minimizer of This section will discuss contextual

equation (7) may not be unique or sparse, requirements, that is, the conditions on the

although sparse solutions with no more context of the investigation under which

than k + 1 nonzero weights always exist. A synthetic controls are appropriate tools for question is then how to choose among the policy evaluation, as well as suitable ways to

typically infinite number of solutions to the modify the analysis when these conditions do

minimization of equation (7). A modification not perfectly hold. It is important, however,

of the synthetic control estimator in Abadie to point out that most of the requirements

and L’Hour (2019) discussed in section 8 listed in this section pertain not only to syn-

addresses this problem and produces syn- thetic control methods, but also to any other

thetic controls that are unique and sparse type of comparative case study research

(provided that untreated observations are design. in general quadratic position, see Abadie

and L’Hour 2019 for details). In contrast, as Size of the Effect and Volatility of the

shown in table 3, regression estimators are Outcome. As previously discussed, the goal typically not sparse. of comparative case studies is to estimate

It is important to notice that the role of the effect of a policy intervention on the unit

sparsity in the context of synthetic control (e.g., state or region) exposed to an interven-

methods differs from the usual role that spar- tion of interest. That is, comparative case

sity plays in other statistical methods like the studies typically estimate the effect of an

lasso, where a sparsity-inducing regulariza- intervention on a single treated unit or on a

tion is employed to prevent over-fitting, and small number of treated units. The nature of

where the interpretation of the lasso coeffi- this exercise indicates that small effects will

cients is often not at issue. Like for the lasso, be indistinguishable from other shocks to

the goal of synthetic controls is out-of-sample the outcome of the affected unit, especially

prediction; in particular, prediction of N Y if the outcome variable of interest is highly

1t





Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 409




volatile. 13 As a result, the impact of “small” also important to eliminate from the donor

interventions with effects of a magnitude pool any units that may have suffered large

similar to the volatility of the outcome are idiosyncratic shocks to the outcome of inter-

difficult to detect. Even a large effect may be est during the study period, if it is judged

difficult to detect if the volatility of the out- that such shocks would not have affected

come is also large. Outcome variables that the outcome of the unit of interest in the

include substantial random noise elevate the 15 absence of the intervention. Moreover, it risk of over-fitting, as explained in subsec- is important to restrict the donor pool to

tion 3.3. In cases where substantial volatil- units with characteristics that are similar to

ity is present in the outcome of interest it is the affected unit. The reason is that, while

advisable to remove it via filtering, in both the restrictions placed on the weights, W , do

the exposed unit as well as in the units in the not allow extrapolation, interpolation biases

donor pool, before applying synthetic control may still be important if the synthetic

techniques. 14 Notice, however, that the chal- control matches the characteristics of

lenge posed by volatility comes only from the the affected unit by averaging away large

fraction of it that is generated by unit-specific discrepancies between the characteristics

factors (e.g., the individual-specific transi- of the affected unit and the characteristics

tory shocks, εjt , in equation (10)). Volatility of the units in the synthetic control. For generated by common factors affecting other the German reunification example, Abadie,

units (e.g., the common factors λt in equa- Diamond, and Hainmueller (2015) restrict tion (10)) can be differentiated out by choos- the donor pool to a set of OECD econ-

ing an appropriate synthetic control. omies. Related to this point, Abadie and

L’Hour (2019) propose adding to the objec-

Availability of a Comparison Group. tive function in equation (7) a set of pen-

The very nature of comparative case stud- alty terms that depend on the discrepancies

ies implies that inference based on these between the characteristics of the affected

methods will be faulty in the absence of a unit and the characteristics of the individual

suitable comparison group. First and fore- units included in the synthetic control (see

most, in order to have units available for section 8 for details). the donor pool, it is important that not all

units adopt interventions similar to the one No Anticipation. As in any research under investigation during the period of the design that exploits time variation in the

study. Units that adopt an intervention simi- outcome variable to estimate the effect of

lar to the one adopted by the unit of interest an intervention, synthetic control estimators

should not be included in the donor pool may be biased if forward-looking economic

because they are affected by the interven- agents react in advance of the policy inter-

tion, very much like the unit of interest. It is vention under investigation, or if certain

components of the intervention are put in

place in advance of the formal implementa-

13 In studies that seek to estimate the average effect tion/enactment of the intervention. If there

of an intervention that is observed in a large number of

instances, the volatility of the outcome variable can often

be reduced by averaging. In contrast, as explained above, 15 As an example, in their study of the effect of comparative case studies often focus on the effect of a sin- California’s tobacco control legislation, Abadie, Diamond,

gle event or intervention. and Hainmueller (2010) discard from the donor pool sev-

14 For example, Amjad, Shah, and Shen (2018) propose eral states that adopted large-scale tobacco programs or

singular value thresholding to de-noise data for synthetic substantially increased taxes on tobacco during the sample

controls. period of the study.

410 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)



are signs of anticipation, it is advisable to advisable to select for the donor pool units

backdate the intervention in the data set to that are affected by the same regional eco-

a period before any anticipation effect can nomic shocks as the unit where the interven-

be expected, so the full extent of the effect tion happens. On the other hand, if spillover

of the intervention can be estimated. Notice effects are substantial and affect units in close

that backdating the intervention in the data geographical proximity, those units may pro-

does not mechanically bias the estimator of vide a biased estimate of the counterfactual

the effect of the intervention even if some outcome without intervention for the unit

periods before the intervention are mistak- affected by the intervention. In cases when

enly recorded as post-intervention periods. units potentially affected by spillover effects

The reason is that, as shown in equations are discarded from the donor pool, the trans-

(2) and (3), the synthetic control estima- parency of the fit of synthetic controls allows

tor does not restrict the time variation in researchers to evaluate the reduction in the

the effect of the intervention. Therefore, quality of the match between the character-

periods barely affected by the interven- istics of the treated unit and the characteris-

tion may show small or zero effects, while tics of the synthetic control. subsequent periods may produce a large Potential spillover effects can also be

estimated effect. This is in contrast with accounted for in the analysis phase of a

much of the practice using panel data mod- synthetic control study. If units affected by

els, where in many instances the effect of spillover effects are included in the synthetic

an intervention is restricted to be constant control, the researcher should be aware

across post-intervention periods. of the potential direction of the bias of the

resulting estimator. For example, Abadie,

No Interference. In the setup of subsection Diamond, and Hainmueller (2015) estimate

3.1, we defined the potential outcomes I Y and the economic impact of the 1990 German

1t

Y N only in terms of the treatment status for reunification using a synthetic control of

it

unit 1 and unit i , respectively, at time t . This other OECD countries to approximate the

is the stable unit treatment value assumption trajectory of the counterfactual per capita

in Rubin (1980), which implies that there is GDP for West Germany in the absence of

no interference across units. That is, units’ the unification. As explained above, if coun-

outcomes are invariant to other units’ treat- tries that compose the synthetic control for

ments. In some instances, however, an inter- West Germany, like Austria, suffered from

vention may have spillover effects on units the negative effects of the German reunifi-

that are not directly targeted by it. Assuming cation, then we would expect the synthetic

that such spillover effects do not exist is a control estimator to be attenuated. That is,

strong restriction that must often be enforced in this case, the synthetic control estimate

in the design of the study or accounted for in would provide a lower bound on the mag-

the analysis of the results. nitude of the causal effect of the German

The assumption of no interference can reunification on GDP per capita in West

be enforced in the design of a study by dis- Germany. Notice that it is the transparency

carding from the donor pool those units with of the counterfactual and sparsity of the syn-

outcomes possibly affected by the interven- thetic control counterfactual estimate that

tion on the treated unit. Notice that there makes this exercise possible. In regression

is a potential tension between this practice settings, like the one in section 4, the weight

and the issues discussed in Availability of a of each unit in the counterfactual estimate

Comparison Group. On the one hand, it is is rarely computed in empirical practice, and





Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 411




non-sparse weight vectors often including the intervention. A potential way to proceed

negative components complicate the evalu- in those cases is to transform the outcome

ation of potential biases. to time differences, ΔYjt = Yjt − Yjt −1 , or

growth rates, 100 × ΔYjt / Yjt−1 . Similarly,

Convex Hull Condition. Synthetic control one could measure outcomes in differences

estimates are predicated on the idea that a with respect to pre-intervention means,



combination of unaffected units can approx- ̃ Y T imate the pre-intervention characteristics of jt = Y jt − ( 1/ T 0 ) ∑0 h Y = 1jh (Ferman and Pinto 2019). Consider the particular case where a the affected unit. Once the synthetic control synthetic control is calculated on the basis is constructed, it should be checked that of all pre-intervention outcomes ( equally the differences in the characteristics of the weighted). That is, each of the T affected unit and the synthetic control are 0 rows of X small, that is: 1 and X 0 contains the outcome val-ues in one of the pre-intervention periods



X for the treated unit and the donor pool, 11 − w 2 X 12 − ⋯ − w J X 1 J + 1 ≈ 0, ⋯ , respectively, and all pre-intervention peri-



X ods carry the same weight in the calcu- k 1 − w 2 X k 2 − ⋯ − w J X kJ + 1 ≈ 0. lation of the synthetic control. For this



hull of the set of points ( {X12 , X22 , … , Xk2) , … , to a proposal in Doudchenko and Imbens X ( 1 J , + 1 X 2 J + 1 , … , X kJ . If the unit affected + 1 ) } (2016), who measure outcomes in levels but by the intervention of interest is “extreme” allow for a constant shift in the synthetic in the value of a particular variable, such a ( in X X 1 and X 0 in deviations with respect to the 11 , X 21 , … , X k 1 ) to fall close to the convex units’ pre-intervention means is equivalent In mathematical parlance, we need particular case, measuring the outcomes value may not be closely approximated by a control fit, X 1 − α I k×1 − X 0 W (with t th row

synthetic control.16 1t 2 2t J+ equal to Y − α − w Y − ⋯ − w1YJ+1t ),

The fact that the value of a particular pre- where I k ×1 is a vector of ones of the same

dictor for the treated unit cannot be closely dimension as X 1 . As explained in Doudchenko



approximated by the synthetic control may shift between and Imbens (2016), allowing for a constant be less of a concern if the synthetic control X1 and X 0 W makes little



variable for the unit affected by the inter- pre-intervention outcomes only, are included vention during a hold-out validation period. in X 1 and X 0 . Notice, however, that measuring In some cases, however, the unit affected by outcomes in deviations with respect to their closely tracks the trajectory of the outcome ple covariates of different scales, instead of sense in more general settings, when multi-



the intervention of interest may be extreme pre-intervention means instead of allowing in the values of the outcome variable before for a constant shift between X 1 and X 0 , W the intervention and, as a result, there will may still be useful to account for differences not be a weighted average of untreated units in the level of the outcomes across units, that can approximate the trajectory of the even if X 1 and X 0 include other predictors outcome variable for the treated unit before aside from pre-intervention outcomes.

Transformations of the outcome variable

16 For example, Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller like those in the previous paragraph may be

(2015) find that because inflation levels were particularly useful in some cases because, as evidenced in

low for West Germany before the reunification, the value the vast difference-in-differences literature,

control composed by other OECD countries. See table 1. there are instances when a of this variable cannot be closely reproduced by a synthetic comparison 412 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)





group can reproduce the changes in the out- and λt , or at least some of their components, come variable for the unit of interest even vary little in time. In that case, the magni-


if the level of the outcome variable cannot tudes of Δθt and Δλt may be small even be reproduced. In other cases, however, if the magnitudes of θt and λt are large. credible counterfactuals require reproduc- This is the usual rationale for working with

ing not only the trend of the outcome vari- differenced outcomes and the basis for

able for the treated but also the level. For difference-in-differences estimators. There

example, some formulations of the conver- may be opposing forces at play, however.

gence hypothesis in economic growth imply Suppose, in particular, that the idiosyncratic

that countries with different levels of per shocks, εjt , are independent or roughly inde-capita GDP will tend to experience differ- pendent in time. Then, the variance of Δ εjt ent growth rates on average, in the absence is larger than the variance of εjt . Now, follow-of an intervention. Similarly, nonlinearities ing the characterization of the bias in subsec-

in labor earnings profiles over the life cycle tion 3.3, a larger residual variance may result

imply that differences in the age distribution in a higher risk of over-fitting and an increase

across populations will typically result in dif- in the bias of the synthetic control estimator.

ferences in the growth of labor earnings.17 More generally, there may not exist a com- Time Horizon. The effect of some inter-bination of untreated units that provide a ventions may take time to emerge or to be

credible approximation to the treated units, of sufficient magnitude to be quantitatively

and the conventional synthetic control esti- detected in the data. An obvious but unsat-

mator should not be used in that case. isfying approach to this problem is to wait

It should also be noted that differencing until the effects of the intervention run their

the dependent variable may result in a sub- course. A more proactive approach is to use

stantial increase in the part of the variance surrogate outcomes or leading indicators of

of the outcome that is attributable to noise, the outcome variable of interest. potentially inducing an increase in bias. As

an example, consider the linear factor model

in equation (10). Differencing equation (10) 6. Data Requirements we obtain

This section discusses data requirements

Δ N Y jt = Δδt + Δθt Z j + Δλ μ tj + Δεjt , for credible applications of synthetic controls.

Like many of the contextual requirements in

the previous section, the data requirements

where N N N Δ Y jt jt jt− Y = − Y discussed here apply not only to synthetic with analogous expressions for Δ 1 δ Δ Δ Δε

t t t jt , θ , λ , and . Notice control estimation but, more generally, to

first that the differenced equation retains the comparative case study methods. linear factor structure. Notice also that dif-

ferencing the outcome may help control the Aggregate Data on Predictors and

bias when the vectors of common factors θt Outcomes. From the previous discussion, it

can be seen that the synthetic control method

requires the availability of data on outcomes

17 Notice that for nonlinearities in the process that gen- and predictors of the outcome for the unit

erates N Y may require that, for each unit j contributing to or units exposed to the intervention of inter-it

the synthetic control, X j is reasonably close to X 1 . Section 8 est and a set of comparison units. Predictors penalize ∥ X 1 − X j∥ . and outcomes are often series reported by describes a synthetic control estimator with weights that

Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 413



government agencies, multilateral organi- the affected unit and the donor pool for a

zations, and private entities. Examples of large pre-intervention window. these types of outcomes are state-level crime A caveat to the preference for a large

rates in the United States (Donohue, Aneja, number of pre-intervention periods is and Weber 2019), country-level per capita given by the possibility of structural breaks.

GDP (Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller Consider the linear factor model of equa-

2015), and state-level cigarette consump- tion (10). In this model, structural stability

tion statistics in the United States (Abadie, is represented by the restriction of con-

Diamond, and Hainmueller 2010), which are stant factor loadings. Even if the model is

routinely reported in publications produced a good representation of the distribution

or commissioned by the Federal Bureau of of the data at a relatively short time scale,

Investigation, the World Bank, and tobacco its accuracy may suffer once we allow the

industry groups, respectively. Sometimes, number of periods to be large enough.

when aggregate data do not exist, aggregates Choosing v1 , … , vk to up-weight the most of micro-data are employed in comparative recent measures (relative to the prediction

case studies. For example, in his study of the window) included in X 1 and X 0 helps allevi-labor market effects of the Mariel Boatlift in ate structural instability concerns. Miami, Card (1990) uses micro-data from With a small number of pre-intervention

the Current Population Survey (CPS) to periods, close or even perfect fit of the pre-

estimate aggregate values for wage rates and dictor values for the treated unit may be spu-

unemployment for workers in Miami and riously attained, in which case the resulting

a set of four comparison cities before and synthetic control may fail to reproduce the

after the Mariel Boatlift. Similarly, Bohn, trajectory of the outcome for the treated

Lofstrom, and Raphael (2014) use data from unit in the absence of the intervention. The

the CPS to estimate the fraction of the pop- severity of this problem can be diminished if

ulation composed of Hispanic noncitizens by powerful predictors of post-intervention val-

state in the United States. N ues of Y , aside from pre-intervention values

jt

of the outcome, are included in X j , reducing

Sufficient Pre-intervention Information. the residual variance and, as a result, the risk

The credibility of a synthetic control of over-fitting. estimator depends in great part on its ability

to steadily track the trajectory of the out- Sufficient Post-intervention Information.

come variable for the affected unit before This data requirement derives partly from

the intervention. As discussed in subsec- the Time Horizon contextual requirement in tion 3.3, Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller section 5. The evaluation data must include

(2010) show that if the data-generating pro- outcome measures that are possibly affected

cess follows a linear factor model, then the by the intervention and are relevant for the

bias of the synthetic control estimator is policy decision or scientific inquiry that is

bounded by a function that is inversely pro- the object of the study. This may be prob-

portional to the number of pre-intervention lematic if the effect of an intervention is

periods (provided that the synthetic control expected to arise gradually over time and if

closely tracks the trajectory of the outcome no forward-looking measures of the outcome

variable for the affected unit during the are available. Conversely, in some practical

pre-intervention periods). Therefore, when instances, the effect of an intervention may

designing a synthetic control study, it is of dissipate rapidly after showing substan-

crucial importance to collect information on tial effectiveness for a few initial periods. 414 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)





35,000




25,000



Reunification backdated to 1980



15,000



Per Capita GDP (PPP 2002 USD)



5,000 West Germany

Synthetic West Germany

0

1960 1970 1980 1990 2000

Year



Figure 3. Backdating the 1990 German Reunification Application



Extensive post-intervention information before an intervention occurs. In the absence allows a more complete picture of the effects of anticipation effects, the same idea can be

of the intervention, in time and across the applied to assess the credibility of a synthetic

various outcomes of interest. control in concrete empirical applications.

Figure 3 shows the result of estimating the



7. effect of the 1990 German reunification with Robustness and Diagnostic Checks the intervention backdated to 1980. Two

The credibility of a synthetic control important features of the results are as fol-

estimator depends on its ability to repro- lows. First, as one would hope, the synthetic

duce outcomes for the treated unit in the control estimator closely tracks per capita

absence of the intervention. This section GDP for West Germany in the 1981–90

presents diagnostic checks that can be used period, before the start of the actual inter-

to evaluate the credibility of synthetic con- vention. This is the“ in-time placebo test” in

trol counterfactuals in actual applications, Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller (2015)

as well as robustness exercises to assess and similar to the “ preprogram test” in sensitivity of results to changes in the design Heckman and Hotz (1989). The absence of

of the study. estimated effects prior to the intervention

provides credibility of the synthetic con-

Backdating. The possibility of backdating trol estimator, as it demonstrates that the

was discussed in section 5 as a way to address synthetic control is able to reproduce the

anticipation effects on the outcome variable trajectory of the outcome variable for the

Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 415



treated unit before the intervention occurs. of any particular country. In other exam-

Second, a gap between per capita GDP for ples, however, results may not be as robust

West Germany and its synthetic control as those in figure 4, and the scientific sig-

counterpart appears around the time of the nificance of the estimates should be evalu-

German reunification, as in figure 1, panel ated with that information in mind. If the

B. This is the case even when the interven- exclusion of a unit from the donor pool has

tion is ten-year backdated in the data and a large effect on results without a discernible

the procedure uses no information on the change in pre-intervention fit, this may war-

timing of the actual intervention. The shape rant investigating if the change in the magni-

and direction of the gap in figure 3 is sim- tude of the estimate is caused by the effects

ilar to that of figure 1, panel B, albeit of a of other interventions or by particularly large

somewhat smaller magnitude. The fact that idiosyncratic shocks on the outcome of the

the estimated effect of the German reuni- excluded untreated unit. fication appears shortly after 1990 even



when the intervention is artificially ten-year 8. Extensions and Related Methods backdated in the data provides credibility to the synthetic control estimator of the 1990 As the literature on synthetic control

German reunification. methods and related methods has greatly

expanded in recent years, it has become

Robustness Tests. Regardless of the esti- increasingly difficult for researchers inter-

mation method employed in the analysis, ested in applying these methods to figure out

the main conclusions of an empirical study what is available where. In this section, I pro-

should display some level of robustness with vide a brief guide to the recent contributions

respect to changes in the study design. In the in the area. This represents only an incom-

context of synthetic controls, two important plete snapshot of a literature that is rapidly

ways the design of a study may influence evolving. results are (i) the choice of units in the donor

pool, and (ii) the choice of predictors of the Multiple Treated Units. Several recent outcome variable. The first choice corre- articles consider estimation and inference

sponds to the columns in X 0 , and the second with synthetic controls for the case where

one corresponds to the rows in X : X [ 1 0 . there are multiple treated units. Notice ]

As a example of a robustness test, fig- that the presence of multiple treated units

ure 4 reports the results of a leave-one-out does not give rise to additional conceptual

re-analysis of the German reunification challenges for the estimation of synthetic data in Abadie, Diamond, and Hainmueller controls. Treatment effects can be estimated

(2015), taking from the sample one-at-a-time for each treated unit separately and aggre-

each of the countries that contribute to the gated in a second step if desired. However,

synthetic control in table 2. All leave-one-out the presence of multiple treated units cre-

estimates closely track the per capita GDP ates some practical problems for estimation,

series for West Germany before 1990. The as well as new challenges and opportunities

resulting estimates for the years after the for inference. reunification are all negative and centered A potential complication with synthetic

around the result produced using the entire control estimation is that the minimizer

donor pool. The main conclusion of a neg- of equation (7) subject to the weight con-

ative estimate of the German reunification straints may not be unique, especially if the

on per capita GDP is robust to the exclusion values of the predictors for a treated unit fall 416 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)





35,000




West Germany

Synthetic West Germany

Synthetic West Germany (leave−one−out)

25,000



15,000



Per Capita GDP (PPP 2002 USD)



5,000



0

1960 1970 1980 1990 2000

Year



Figure 4. Leave-one-out Estimates of the Effect of the 1990 German Reunification



inside the convex hull of the values of the in the space of the predictors, even when an

predictors for the donor pool. Suppose, for alternative solution exists based only on units

now, that only the first unit is treated. If X 1 with predictor values similar to X 1 . This may,



of X ⁎ 0 , this implies that we can find W such remain unchecked under the illusion of per-⁎ belongs to the convex hull of the columns in turn, lead to large interpolation biases that

that X ⁎ 19 1 = X 0 W . Moreover, the number of fect fit, X 1 = X 0 W . minimizers to equation (7) may be (and will Even in moderate dimensions, k , the curse

typically be) infinite. 18 That is, there may exist of dimensionality works to keep treated

an infinite number of solutions to the prob- observations outside of the convex hull of

lem of minimizing of equation (7), subject to the units in the donor pool. Therefore, in

the weight constraints, that perfectly repro- settings with one treated unit, multiplicity of

duce X 1 . An algorithm minimizing equation solutions is rarely an issue, and if it arises it (7) subject to the weight constrains may can often be easily addressed by restricting

select a solution, W ⁎ , with positive entries for the donor pool to units with predictor val-units that are far away from the treated unit ues most similar to the values of the predic-

tor for the unit exposed to the treatment.



tion (7) subject to the weight constraints, then so is 18 ⁎ ⁎ If W 1 and W 2 are both minimizers of equa- ⁎ 19 Notice, however, that perfect fit, X 1 = X 0 W , ⁎ ⁎ ⁎ a W 1 + ( 1 − a ) W 2 , for a ∈ ( 0, 1 ) . This implies that the where W minimizes equation (7) subject to the weight number of solutions to the minimization equation (7) given constraints, is indicative of the possibility of infinite the weight constraints can only be one or infinity. solutions.





Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 417




However, in settings with many treated and pairwise matching discrepancies between

untreated units, multiplicity of solutions and the predictor values for unit i and each of how to choose among them become import- the units that contribute to its synthetic con-

ant issues for estimation. Moreover, large trol, weighted by the magnitudes of their

interpolation biases may also arise in settings contributions. The penalty term is added

where the predictor values for treated units to equation (13) with the aim of reducing

fall outside the convex hull of the predictor interpolation biases. As λ → ∞ , the penal-values for the units in the donor pool, espe- ized estimator converges to one-to-one

cially when the units contributing to synthetic matching. As λ → 0 , the estimator uses an controls are far away from the treated units aggregate of pairwise matching discrepan-

in the space of predictors. That is, there may cies weighted by W to select among all syn-

be cases such that X ⁎ 1 ≈ X 0 W but where X j thetic controls that attain the minimal value greatly differs from X 1 , for some unit j con- for ∥ X i − X 0 W∥ . Values of λ between zero tributing to the synthetic control. and infinity trade off aggregate fit of the syn-

To address these challenges, Abadie thetic control and pairwise fit of each of the and L’Hour (2019) propose a synthetic units that contribute to it. control estimator that incorporates a pen- Abadie and L’Hour (2019) show that

alty for pairwise matching discrepancies if λ > 0 , then the minimizer of equation (13) between the treated units and each of the is unique and sparse (provided that the col-

units that contribute to their synthetic umns of X 0 are in general quadratic position, controls. Consider a setting with I treated see Abadie and L’Hour 2019 for details).



first. That is, units ⁎ ⁎ j = 1, … , I are treated Let W i = w , … , ( iI w + 1 iI be the solu-+ J ′ ) and units j = I + 1, … , I + J are untreated, tion to the minimization problem in equa-+ with I J units in total. As in previous sec-tion (13). Then, the estimated treatment = observations so that the treated units come niques to select λ . ⁎ units and J untreated units. We will index They also provide cross-validation tech-tions, X j is the vector of predictor values effect for i 1, … , I and t = T0 + 1, … , T is for unit j , and X 0 is the matrix of the pre- as in (8),



For λ > 0 , the estimator in Abadie and (14) dictor values for the units in the donor pool. I+J L’Hour (2019) minimizes τ ˆ it = Yit − ∑ ⁎ w ij Yjt , j = I + 1



(13) with average treatment effect given by I+J ∥ X i − X 0 W∥2 + λ ∑ wi ∥ X i − X j∥2 j



with respect to τ _ ˆ t = 1 ∑ τ ˆ it . W =I+1 I

each treated unit, = w w , for ( I , … , + 1 I + J ′ I ) i=1 i = 1, … , I , subject to the



are nonnegative and sum to one. constraints that the weights w I In many instances, especially where the + 1 , … , w I + J 20 The first sample units are aggregates like regions term in equation (13) is the aggregate dis- or countries, a weighted average (e.g.,

crepancy between the predictor values for population-weighted, or GDP-weighted)

treated unit i and its synthetic control. The treatment effect may be most relevant. second term in equation (13) penalizes Dube and Zipperer (2015) and Abadie and

L’Hour (2019) propose extensions of the per-

20 Although this is not reflected in the notation in equa- mutation methods in Abadie, Diamond, and

tion (13), λ may depend on i . Hainmueller (2010) to the case with multiple 418 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)





treated units. They employ rank-based sta- a separate synthetic control for each treated


tistics on the permutation distribution of unit, they calculate a single synthetic control

treatment effects, where the identity of the to match aggregate values of the predictors

treated units is permuted at random in the between the treated and nontreated samples.

data. In particular, Abadie and L’Hour (2019) As in the usual synthetic control estimator, the

propose the following simple generalization weights in Hainmueller (2012) and Robbins,

of the permutation test in Abadie, Diamond, Saunders, and Kilmer (2017) are nonnegative

and Hainmueller (2010). They consider a and sum to a predetermined constant (typi-

setting with I treated units and J untreated cally equal to one, or to the number of treated

units. In each permutation b = 1, … , B , the units, depending on the scaling of the vari-

identities of the I treated units are reas- ables in the data set). These estimators require

signed in the data among the I + J units in that there is at least a convex combination of

the sample, and statistics r b,1 , … , rb,I are units in the donor pool that exactly matches calculated for the units coded as treated in a prespecified set of moments of the predic-

the permutation. These statistics could be tors for the treated units. Among the sets of

( bias-corrected) synthetic control estimates weights that perfectly reproduce the moments

of treatment effects, or rescaled versions that for the treated sample, Hainmueller (2012)

take into account the pre-intervention fit as in and Robbins, Saunders, and Kilmer (2017)

equation (12), or their absolute values, pos- choose the one that minimizes a measure of

itive parts, or negative parts, depending on discrepancy with respect to constant weights.

the context. Notice that when I is small rela-

tive to I + J , it may be possible to consider all Bias Correction. Another practical com-possible treatment reassignments, in which plication in settings with many treated units

case B is equal to I + J -choose- I . If consid- is that, even with a moderate k , the predictor ( )

ering all possible treatment reassignments is values for some of the treated units may not

computationally expensive, inference can be be closely reproduced by a synthetic control,

based on B random draws from all subsets or may be closely reproduced only by com-

of I units in the sample. Let r 0,1 , … , r0,I be binations of units with large pairwise match-the same statistics calculated for the actual ing discrepancies in predictor values with

treated units. Then, B permutation repe- respect to the treated unit. At the same time,

titions, in addition to the original sample including those ill-fitted units in the calcula-

values for treatment, produce I × (B + 1) tion of the aggregate effect may be important

statistics, r0,1 , … , r0,I , … , rB,1 , … , rB,I . Now, for the desired interpretation of the estimate for each b = 0, … , B , one can calculate t b (e.g., as an estimate of the average effect of equal to the sum of the ranks of rb,1 , … , rb,I the treatment on the treated). In that case, within r0,1 , … , r0,I , … , rB,1 , … , rB,I . The per- one could be concerned about the potential mutation inference in Abadie and L’Hour biases produced by matching discrepancies

(2019) is based on the “extremeness” of between the values of the predictors for



the statistic t 0 within the permutation dis- the treated units and those for the respec-21 tribution t 0 , t 1 , … , t B . Notice that, for I = 1 tive synthetic controls. Bias corrections this mode of inference amounts to the per-

mutation test in Abadie, Diamond, and

Hainmueller (2010). 21 Related to this problem, Ferman and Pinto (2019)



and Kilmer (2017) consider also settings with Hainmueller (2012) and Robbins, Saunders, and Botosaru and Ferman (2019) study the properties of synthetic control estimators for cases where the value of the predictors for a treated unit cannot be closely matched multiple treated units. Instead of producing by a synthetic control.

Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 419



play also an important role in reducing reg- Equation (16) provides an interpretation of

ularization biases in inferential methods for the bias-corrected synthetic control estima-

regression-based variants of synthetic con- tor as a synthetic control estimator applied

trols (see, e.g., Arkhangelsky et al. 2019, to regression residuals. The bias correction

Chernozhukov, Wüthrich, and Zhu 2019b). in equation (16) is related to the proposal in

Abadie and L’Hour (2019) and Doudchenko and Imbens (2016) to residual-Ben-Michael et al. (2020) propose ize the outcomes with respect to covariates modifications of the synthetic control esti- before calculating synthetic controls. mator along the lines of the bias-correction A different avenue to evaluate the bias

techniques of Rubin (1973), Quade (1982), of synthetic control estimators, which was

and Abadie and Imbens (2011). They use discussed in section 7, is given by the avail-

regression adjustments to attenuate the bias ability of pre-intervention periods, when

of synthetic control estimators in settings the effect of the treatment is not yet real-

where the synthetic control counterfactual is ized. In the absence of anticipation effects,

constructed using untreated units with values estimates of treatment effects before the

of the predictors that do not closely repro- intervention are reflective of estimation

duce the predictor values for the treated biases. If biases are stable in time, esti-

unit or units. For t = T0 + 1, … , T , let μ ˆ0t be mates of those biases could be used to a sample regression function (parametric or correct synthetic control estimates. Bias

nonparametric) estimated by regressing the adjustments of this type, which are closely

untreated outcomes, Y I+1,t , … , YI+J,t , on the related to difference-in-differences meth-values of the predictors for the untreated ods, are proposed in Arkhangelsky et al.

units, X I +1 , … , X I+J . The bias-corrected syn- (2019) and Chernozhukov, Wüthrich, and thetic control estimator for unit i is Zhu (2019b).



(15) I +J Regression-Based Methods and Extra- ⁎ τ ˆ it = Y it − ∑ w ij Y jt polation. Several articles have contributed ( j = I + 1 ) regression-based estimators for synthetic

I+J controls. These procedures allow extrapola-



− ⁎ tion by considering synthetic controls that ∑ w ˆ ij μ ( 0 t ( X i ) − μ ˆ 0 t X ( j ) ) . j = I + 1 are not convex combinations of the units in

the donor pool. Doudchenko and Imbens

The first term on the right-hand side of (15) (2016) consider an estimator that fits all

is the synthetic control estimator in (14). The pretreatment outcomes for the treated, with

second term uses a regression adjustment to weights that may be negative and may not

correct for discrepancies between the pre- sum to one, and allow for a constant shift in

dictor values for the treated unit and the the level of the synthetic control estimator.

predictor values for the units that contribute They propose to use an elastic net—that is, a

to the synthetic control. Alternatively, the combination of lasso ( L1 ) and ridge ( L2 ) pen-estimator in (15) can be expressed as alties—to regularize the weights. The coun-

terfactual estimates for t = T0 + 1, … , T in

(16) τ ˆ it = (Yit − μ ˆ0t( X i)) Doudchenko and Imbens (2016) are



− ⁎ ˆ N ∑ w ˆ (17) Y ij ( I+J J+1 Yjt − μ0t X ( j . ) ) 1t =

j I+1 j=2 = α ˆ + ∑ w ˆ j Yjt , 420 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)



where α ˆ , w ˆ 2 , … , w ˆ J+1 minimize Matrix Completion/Estimation Methods.

Amjad, Shah, and Shen (2018); Amjad et



(18) ∑ Y related methods that use tools from the 1 t − α − ∑ w j Y jt t T 2 0 J + 1 al. (2019); and Athey et al. (2020) propose

=1 j=2 matrix completion/matrix estimation liter-( )



+ _ J+1 J+1 the treated unit, and units j = 2, … , J + 1 − λ λ ature. Suppose, as before, that unit j = 1 is

1 j 2 j ∑ w + λ ∑ | w | , are not treated. Amjad, Shah, and

( 1 2 2 2 j=2 j=2 )

Shen (2018) posit a nonlinear factor- structure model for the untreated,



with respect to + ( α J jt j t jt Y N = f μ , λ + ε + 1 ( , with j = 2, … , J )

, 1 w 2 J+ , … , w , 1 and ) ∈ ℝ t = 1, … , T , where ε is random noise.

1 are regulariza-



tion parameters selected by cross-validation. N ence of missing values in the matrix { Y jt} , To incorporate additional predictors in with j = where jt λ 1 2 Their framework allows for the pres-≥ 0 and 0 ≤ λ ≤

their estimation procedure, Doudchenko 1, … , J + 1 , and t = 1, … , T . Using



and Imbens (2016) propose to use least matrix estimation methods, in particular singular value thresholding (see Chatterjee squares in a first step to residualize the out- 2015), Amjad, Shah, and Shen (2018) esti- comes Y jt for j = 1, … , J + 1 in equation ˆ mate a low-rank approximation, M (18) with respect to any other covariates. { jt , to the } ˆ matrix M f Chernozhukov, Wüthrich, and Zhu (2019a) { jt = μ λ } { ( j , t ) } . The objects M jt N are used to de-noise the outcomes Y jt and consider different penalty terms, includ- to impute missing values, if any. Then, syn- ing lasso regularization (i.e., λ 2 = 1 ), in the thetic controls are obtained as linear com- context of an inferential procedure for syn- ˆ binations of M thetic controls. Regression estimators of jt , with coefficients estimated ˆ ˆ by ridge regression of Y 1 t on M 2 t , … M this type are also related to the panel data J + 1 t in the pre-intervention periods. The estimator approach to the program evaluation esti- in Amjad, Shah, and Shen (2018) does not mator in Hsiao, Ching, and Wan (2012), incorporate covariates, using data on out- where λ 1 = 0 and the parameters in equa- comes, Y tion (17) are estimated by unpenalized least jt , only. Amjad et al. (2019) modify the estimator in Amjad, Shah, and Shen (2018) to squares. Li (2019) considers the same esti- incorporate additional variables aside from mator as in Hsiao, Ching, and Wan (2012), the outcome of interest, under the assump- but regularizes the weights w ˆ 2 , … , w ˆ J + 1 to be tion that all variables depend on common nonnegative. latent factors. Athey et al. (2020) postulate Arkhangelsky et al. (2019) introduce a N the model Y synthetic control estimator that weights jt = M jt + ε jt , for j = 1, … , J + 1 and t not only the units in the control group, but = 1, … , T , where ε jt is again random noise. In their framework, missing entries also the pre-intervention time periods, to N in the matrix approximate the counterfactual of inter- + { Y jt } , with j = 1, … , J 1 and t = 1, … , T , arise naturally for the treated est. The time weights in Arkhangelsky et al. observation (or treated observations, if mul- (2019) play a similar role as the predictor tiple units are treated) in the posttreatment weights, v 1 , … , v k , of subsection 3.2. They periods. Athey et al. (2020) assume that reflect the importance of each of the individ- the matrix M ual predictors, which in the leading version { jt , with j = 1, … , J + 1 } of the estimator of Arkhangelsky et al. (2019) and t = 1, … , T , is low-rank, which allows ˆ are past outcome values. them to obtain an estimate, M { jt , via matrix }





Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 421




completion techniques. The estimated coun- potential outcome under the intervention

terfactual outcomes without the treatment I N is Y = P + τ + u for t > T . To simplify for the treated are the values of M jt ˆ 1t t t t 0 such the exposition, assume that u 1 , … , uT are

that N Y is missing. Extensions allow for mod- i.i.d. Then, the distribution of a function,

els with covariates and the inclusion of time S u , … , u ( jt T 0+1 T , of the post-intervention val-)



from the low-rank matrix, M jt ). of S u , … , ( π ( T 0 + 1u , where 1 , … , ) π ( T ) π ( fixed effects and unit fixed effects (separate ues of u t should be the same as the distribution ) ) π(T)

is a random permutation of 1, … , T . Suppose



inferential tools for synthetic controls as alter- hypothesis, τT 0+1 = aT , …, 0 + 1τT = aT , we can N natives to the permutation test in subsection compute Inference. Several studies have proposed N for now that P t is known. Then, under a null

ut = Y1t − Pt − at , where at = 0

3.5. Firpo and Possebom (2018) propose sev- for 1 ≤ t ≤ T0 . As a result, we can test the



in subsection 3.5 and contribute confidence of Su to its permutation ( T , … , 0 + 1 u T ) sets based on inverting the results of these eral generalizations of the permutation test null hypothesis by comparing the value



tests. In a repeated sampling framework for of S u , … , , which can be directly ( π u ( T 0 + 1 ) π ( T ) ) stationary data and large distribution, that is, the distribution

T 0 , Hahn and Shi computed in the data. A feasible implemen-

(2017) propose to apply the end-of-sample tation of the test requires estimation of the

instability test of Andrews (2003) to obtain residuals, u1 , … , uT . In the context of the



trol estimators. In the context of synthetic Wüthrich, and Zhu (2019a) adopt the J control estimators, the end-of-sample insta- an inferential procedure for synthetic con- synthetic control method, Chernozhukov,

model N +1 P t j=2 w = ∑ Y with nonnegative

bility test of Andrews (2003) is related to the j jt weights that sum to one, and E u Y = [ t jt 0

backdating ideas of section 7. It compares ] the values of treatment effects computed for j = 2, … , J + 1 , and implement their



for the T − test on constrained least squares residu- T0 post-intervention periods to

the distribution of the of same values com- als, u ˆ 1 , … , u ˆ T . The proposal in Chernozhukov,

puted for every subset of T − Wüthrich, and Zhu (2019a) differs from T 0 consecu-



stationary and weakly dependent with mean dure for synthetic controls and related meth- properties of synthetic control estimators, ods that employs permutations of regression Chernozhukov, Wüthrich, and Zhu (2019a) residuals in the time dimension. In particular, adopt instead the restriction E u Y 0 [ t jt = ] Chernozhukov, Wüthrich, and Zhu (2019a) for N N j = N 23 2, … , J + 1 to estimate P assume Y t . They 1 t = P t + u t , where u 1 , … , u T are τ zero. Let T , … , be the effects of 0 + 1 τ T 23 To understand the differences between these two the treatment on the treated unit (unit frameworks, notice that when the data are generated one) at times t = to Andrews’s end-of-sample instability test, literature on synthetic controls has adopted Chernozhukov, Wüthrich, and Zhu (2019a) the linear factor model of subsection 3.3 devise a sampling-based inferential proce- as a working model to understand the tive pre-intervention periods. Related also important respects. First, while much of the other synthetic control procedures in two

T 22 by the linear factor model of subsection 3.3, and there + 1, … , T . The 0

is an unbiased synthetic control—that is, a synthetic



22 duces Z 1 and μ1 —then, the restriction E u [tYjt = 0 for 1 ] N J + N To be consistent with the notation for control with weights, w 2 , … , wJ+1 that exactly repro-

Pt and ut and j = 2, … , J + 1 and ut = Y1t − ∑j Y = 2 w jjt does not hold in

because only unit one is treated, here I drop the subscript general (see Ferman and Pinto 2019). One exception is

indicating that identity of the treated unit from the nota- given by the results in Ferman (2019), which imply that

tion for treatment effect. E u Y 0 for j = J + 1 will approximately hold as [ t jt = 2, … , ]

422 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)



show, however, that regardless of the valid- Other Contributions. In this article, I ity of the model, their testing procedure have provided a brief description of selected

remains valid as long as the estimated strands of the literature on synthetic con-

residuals, u ˆ 1 , … , u ˆ T are exchangeable under trols and related methods, starting with the null hypothesis. Second, in contrast the canonical estimator in sections 2 and 3,

to other synthetic control procedures that and describing some extensions and related

compute the weights w 2 , … , wJ+1 using methods in the current section. The litera- pre-intervention data only, in the inferential ture is vast in its totality, however, and there

procedure of Chernozhukov, Wüthrich, and are many noteworthy contributions I did

Zhu (2019a) the synthetic control weights not cover. They include Bai and Ng (2019);



sis, τT 0+1 = aT0+1 , …, τT = aT , using data (2016); Gunsilius (2020); Kennedy-Shaffe, N on are estimated under the null hypothe- Brodersen et al. (2015); Gobillon and Magnac

Y it = Yit − at for all periods, including de Gruttola, and Lipsitch (2020); Viviano

the periods after the intervention. For a sim- and Bradic (2019); and Xu (2017), among

ilar set of models, Chernozhukov, Wüthrich, many others. Samartsidis et al. (2019) study

and Zhu (2019b) propose bias-corrected the performance of the canonical synthetic

synthetic control estimation and confi- control estimator and related methods in the

dence intervals for the mean value of the context of the German reunification exam-

treatment effect over the post-intervention ple of subsection 3.2. As the set of methods

period, τ / T − ( T 0 + 1 + ⋯ + τ T ) ( T0) in set- on synthetic controls keeps expanding and tings when both T 0 and T − T0 are large. enriching the applied econometrics tool-Similar to difference in differences, the kit, this is still a young literature and much

bias-correction procedure of Chernozhukov, remains to be done. I mention some open

Wüthrich, and Zhu (2019b) adjusts for dif- areas in the final section of this article. ferences in pre-intervention outcomes



control. Confidence intervals are based on 9. Conclusions between the treated unit and the synthetic

an asymptotically pivotal t -statistic and cen- Synthetic controls provide many practical

tered on the average of K -fold cross-fitted advantages for the estimation of the effects versions of the bias-corrected synthetic con- of policy interventions and other events of

trol estimate. Cattaneo, Feng, and Titiunik interest. However, like for any other sta-

(2021) propose predictive intervals for tistical procedure (and especially for those synthetic control estimators and related aimed at estimating causal effects), the cred-

methods. They adopt a predictive model ibility of the results depends crucially on the

Y N 1 t = N N P t + u t , where P t depends on level of diligence exerted in the application observed predictors and unknown parame- of the method and on whether contextual

ters, and u t is an unobserved random error. and data requirements are met in the empir-Their predictive intervals for τ ˆ 1t = Y 1t − Y t N ical application at hand. In this article, I (with t > T0) take into account estima- emphasize the notion that mechanical appli-tion uncertainty about the values of the cations of synthetic controls that do not take

parameters in N P as well as irreducible into account the context of the investigation

uncertainty about the value of u t t

. or the nature of the data are risky enter-

prises. To this end, the article discusses the



J methodological underpinnings of synthetic if there are weights, → ∞ w 2 , … , w J + 1 that asymptotically control estimators and the conditions under recover Z 1 and μ 1 and are increasingly diluted among the which they provide suitable estimates of units in the donor pool.

Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 423



causal effects. It also describes how the anal- Abadie, Alberto, Alexis Diamond, and Jens Hainmuel-



conditions do not hold. Finally, the article Control Method.” American Journal of Political Sci- ence 59 (2): 495–510. discusses some recent extensions that widen ysis may be modified in the cases when those ler. 2015. “Comparative Politics and the Synthetic

the applicability, robustness, and flexibility of Abadie, Alberto, and Javier Gardeazabal. 2003. “The

Economic Costs of Conflict: A Case Study of the

the method. Basque Country.” American Economic Review 93



both methodological and empirical. Results Abadie, Alberto, and Guido W. Imbens. 2011. “Bias-Corrected Matching Estimators for Average on sampling-based inference, external valid- Open areas of related research abound, (1): 113–32.

ity, sensitivity to model restrictions, esti- Treatment Effects.” Journal of Business & Economic

Statistics 29 (1): 1–11.

mation with multiple interventions, and Abadie, Alberto, and Jérémy L’Hour. 2019. “A Penal-



which the effect of an event or intervention Data.” Unpublished. https://sites.google.com/site/ jeremylhour/research. operates, to mention a few, are scant or the identification of the channels though ized Synthetic Control Estimator for Dissagregated

absent in the synthetic controls literature. An Acemoglu, Daron, Simon Johnson, Amir Kermani,

James Kwak, and Todd Mitton. 2016. “The Value of

area of recent heightened interest regarding Connections in Turbulent Times: Evidence from the



experimental interventions in settings where (2): 368–91. Allegretto, Sylvia, Arindrajig Dube, Michael Reich, and the intervention of interest can only be the use of synthetic controls is the design of United States.” Journal of Financial Economics 121 applied to one or a small number of aggre- Ben Zipperer. 2017. “Credible Research Designs for

Minimum Wage Studies: A Response to Neumark,

gate units. In addition, existing results on Salas, and Wascher.” ILR Review 70 (3): 559–92.



controls are scarce, and more research is 2018. “Robust Synthetic Control.” Journal of Machine Learning Research 19 (22): 1–51. needed on the computational aspects of this robust and efficient computation of synthetic Amjad, Muhammad, Devavrat Shah, and Dennis Shen.

methodology. On the empirical side, many Amjad, Muhammad J., Vishal Misra, Devavrat Shah,

and Dennis Shen. 2019. “mRSC: Multidimensional

of the events and policy interventions econ- Robust Synthetic Control.” Proceedings of the ACM



level, affecting entire aggregate units like 3 (2). https://doi.org/10.1145/3341617.3326152. Andrews, D. W. K. 2003. “End-of-Sample Instability school districts, cities, regions, or countries. omists care about take place at an aggregate on Measurement and Analysis of Computing Systems

This is exactly the setting synthetic controls Tests.” Econometrica 71 (6): 1661–94.

Angrist, Joshua D., and Jörn-Steffen Pischke. 2009.

were designed for, and potential applications Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist’s

of synthetic controls in economics are many. Companion. Princeton and Oxford: Princeton Uni-

versity Press.

Arkhangelsky, Dmitry, Susan Athey, David A. Hirsh-

References berg, Guido W. Imbens, and Stefan Wager. 2019.

“Synthetic Difference in Differences.” NBER Work-

Abadie, Alberto. 2005. “Semiparametric Differ- ing Paper 25532.

ence-in-Differences.” Review of Economic Stud- Athey, Susan, Mohsen Bayati, Nikolay Doudchenko,

ies 72 (1): 1–19. Guido Imbens, and Khashayar Khosravi. 2020.

Abadie, Alberto, Susan Athey, Guido W. Imbens, and “Matrix Completion Methods for Causal Panel Data

Jeffrey M. Wooldridge. 2020. “Sampling-Based ver- Models.” Available on arXiv at 1710.10251.

sus Design-Based Uncertainty in Regression Analy- Athey, Susan, and Guido W. Imbens. 2017. “The State

sis.” Econometrica 88 (1): 265–96. of Applied Econometrics: Causality and Policy Eval-

Abadie, Alberto, Alexis Diamond, and Jens Hain- uation.” Journal of Economic Perspectives 31 (2):

mueller. 2010. “Synthetic Control Methods for 3–32.

Comparative Case Studies: Estimating the Effect Bai, Jushan. 2009. “Panel Data Models with Interactive

of California’s Tobacco Control Program.” Journal Fixed Effects.” Econometrica 77 (4): 1229–79.

of the American Statistical Association 105 (490): Bai, Jushan, and Serena Ng. 2019. “Matrix Comple-

493–505. tion, Counterfactuals, and Factor Analysis of Missing 424 Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. LIX (June 2021)



Data.” Available on arXiv at 1910.06677. Empirical Legal Studies 16 (2): 198–247. Ben-Michael, Eli, Avi Feller, and Jesse Rothstein. 2020. Doudchenko, Nikolay, and Guido W. Imbens. 2016.

“The Augmented Synthetic Control Method.” Avail- “Balancing, Regression, Difference-in-Differences

able on arXiv at 1811.04170. and Synthetic Control Methods: A Synthesis.” NBER

Bifulco, Robert, Ross Rubenstein, and Hosung Sohn. Working Paper 22791.

2017. “Using Synthetic Controls to Evaluate the Douglas, Jason. 2018. “How an Analysis of Basque Ter-

Effect of Unique Interventions: The Case of Say Yes rorism Helps Economists Understand Brexit.” Wall

to Education.” Evaluation Review 41 (6): 593–619. Street Journal, November 7.

Bohn, Sarah, Magnus Lofstrom, and Steven Raphael. Dube, Arindrajit, and Ben Zipperer. 2015. “Pooling

2014. “Did the 2007 Legal Arizona Workers Act Multiple Case Studies Using Synthetic Controls: An

Reduce the State’s Unauthorized Immigrant Popu- Application to Minimum Wage Policies.” IZA Dis-

lation?” Review of Economics and Statistics 96 (2): cussion Paper 8944.

258–69. Ferman, Bruno. 2019. “On the Properties of the Syn-

Borjas, George J. 2017. “The Wage Impact of the Mari- thetic Control Estimator with Many Periods and

elitos: A Reappraisal.” ILR Review 70 (5): 1077–1110. Many Controls.” Available on arXiv at 1906.06665.

Botosaru, Irene, and Bruno Ferman. 2019. “On the Ferman, Bruno, and Cristine Pinto. 2019. “Synthetic

Role of Covariates in the Synthetic Control Method.” Controls with Imperfect Pre-treatment t.” Available

Econometrics Journal 22 (2): 117–30. on arXiv at 1911.08521.

Brodersen, Kay H., Fabian Gallusser, Jim Koehler, Firpo, Sergio, and Vitor Possebom. 2018. “Synthetic

Nicolas Remy, and Steven L. Scott. 2015. “Inferring Control Method: Inference, Sensitivity Analysis and

Causal Impact Using Bayesian Structural Time-Se- Confidence Sets.” Journal of Causal Inference 6 (2):

ries Models.” Annals of Applied Statistics 9 (1): 20160026.

247–74. Fisher, Ronald. 1935. The Design of Experiments.

Card, David. 1990. “The Impact of the Mariel Boat- Edinburgh and London: Oliver and Boyd.

lift on the Miami Labor Market.” ILR Review 43 (2): Gobillon, Laurent, and Thierry Magnac. 2016.

245–57. “Regional Policy Evaluation: Interactive Fixed

Card, David, and Alan B. Krueger. 1994. “Minimum Effects and Synthetic Controls.” Review of Econom-

Wages and Employment: A Case Study of the Fast- ics and Statistics 98 (3): 535–51.

Food Industry in New Jersey and Pennsylvania.” Gunsilius, Florian. 2020. “Distributional Synthetic

American Economic Review 84 (4): 772–93. Controls.” Available on arXiv at 2001.06118v3. Cattaneo, Mattias D., Yinjie Feng, and Rocio Titiunik. Guo, Jeff. 2015. “Seriously, Here’s One Amazing Math

2021. “Prediction Intervals for Synthetic Control Trick to Learn What Can’t Be Known.” Washington

Methods.” Available on arXiv at 1912.07120v2. Post, October 30.

Chatterjee, Sourav. 2015. “Matrix Estimation by Uni- Gutierrez, Italo A., Gabriel Weinberger, and John Eng-

versal Singular Value Thresholding.” Annals of Sta- berg. 2016. Improving Teaching Effectiveness:

tistics 43 (1): 177–214. Impact on Student Outcomes: The Intensive Part-

Chernozhukov, Victor, Kaspar Wüthrich, and Yin- nerships for Effective Teaching Through 2013–2014.

chu Zhu. 2019a. “An Exact and Robust Conformal Santa Monica, CA: RAND Corporation.

Inference Method for Counterfactual and Synthetic Hahn, Jinyong, and Ruoyao Shi. 2017. “Synthetic Con-

Controls.” Available on arXiv at 1712.09089v6. trol and Inference.” Econometrics 5 (4): Article 52.

Chernozhukov, Victor, Kaspar Wüthrich, and Yin- Hainmueller, Jens. 2012. “Entropy Balancing for

chu Zhu. 2019b. “Practical and Robust t-Test Based Causal Effects: A Multivariate Reweighting Method

Inference for Synthetic Control and Related Meth- to Produce Balanced Samples in Observational Stud-

ods.” Available on arXiv at 1812.10820v2. ies.” Political Analysis 20 (1): 25–46.

Cook, Thomas D., and Donald T. Campbell. 1979. Heckman, James J., and V. Joseph Hotz. 1989. “Choos-

Quasi-Experimentation: Design & Analysis Issues for ing among Alternative Nonexperimental Methods

Field Settings. Boston: Houghton Mifflin. for Estimating the Impact of Social Programs: The

Cunningham, Scott, and Manisha Shah. 2018. “Decrim- Case of Manpower Training.” Journal of the Ameri-

inalizing Indoor Prostitution: Implications for Sexual can Statistical Association 84 (408): 862–74.

Violence and Public Health.” Review of Economic Heersink, Boris, Brenton D. Peterson, and Jeffrey A.

Studies 85 (3): 1683–1715. Jenkins. 2017. “Disasters and Elections: Estimating

Donohue, John J., Abhay Aneja, and Kyle D. Weber. the Net Effect of Damage and Relief in Historical

2019. “Right-to-Carry Laws and Violent Crime: A Perspective.” Political Analysis 25 (2): 260–68.

Comprehensive Assessment Using Panel Data and Holland, Paul W. 1986. “Statistics and Causal

a State-Level Synthetic Control Analysis.” Journal of Inference.” Journal of the American Statistical

Abadie: Using Synthetic Controls 425



Association 81: 945–60. Analysis.” Lancet Global Health 4 (9): e627–32.

Hsiao, Cheng, H. Steve Ching, and Shui Ki Wan. 2012. Pinotti, Paolo. 2015. “The Economic Costs of Organ-

“A Panel Data Approach for Program Evaluation: ised Crime: Evidence from Southern Italy.” Eco-

Measuring the Benefits of Political and Economic nomic Journal 125 (586): F203–32.

Integration of Hong Kong with Mainland China.” Quade, Dana. 1982. “Nonparametric Analysis of Cova-

Journal of Applied Econometrics 27 (5): 705–40. riance by Matching.” Special issue, Biometrics 38 (3): Jardim, Ekaterina, Mark C. Long, Robert Plotnick, 597–611.

Emma van Inwegen, Jacob Vigdor, and Hilary Weth- Reich, Michael, Sylvia A. Allegretto, and Anna Godoey.

ing. 2017. “Minimum Wage Increases, Wages, and 2017. “Seattle’s Minimum Wage Experience 2015–

Low-Wage Employment: Evidence from Seattle. 16.” CWED Policy Brief, University of California,

NBER Working Paper 23532. Berkeley.

Kennedy-Shaffer, Lee, Victor de Gruttola, and Robbins, Michael W., Jessica Saunders, and

Marc Lipsitch. 2020. “Novel Methods for the Anal- Beau Kilmer. 2017. “A Framework for Synthetic

ysis of Stepped Wedge Cluster Randomized Trials.” Control Methods with High-Dimensional, Micro-

Statistics in Medicine 39 (7): 815–44. Level Data: Evaluating a Neighborhood-Specific

King, Gary, and Langche Zeng. 2006. “The Dangers of Crime Intervention.” Journal of the American Statis-

Extreme Counterfactuals.” Political Analysis 14 (2): tical Association 112 (517): 109–26.

131–59. Rosenbaum, Paul R. 1984. “Conditional Permutation

Kleven, Henrik Jacobsen, Camille Landais, and Tests and the Propensity Score in Observational

Emmanuel Saez. 2013. “Taxation and Interna- Studies.” Journal of the American Statistical Associa-

tional Migration of Superstars: Evidence from the tion 79 (387): 565–74.

European Football Market.” American Economic Rubin, Donald B. 1973. “The Use of Matched Sam-

Review 103 (5): 1892–1924. pling and Regression Adjustments to Remove Bias in

Klößner, Stefan, Ashok Kaul, Gregor Pfeifer, and Man- Observational Studies.” Biometrics 29 (1): 185–203.

uel Schieler. 2018. “Comparative Politics and the Rubin, Donald B. 1974. “Estimating Causal Effects

Synthetic Control Method Revisited: A Note on Aba- of Treatments in Randomized and Nonrandomized

die et al. (2015).” Swiss Journal of Economics and Studies.” Journal of Educational Psychology 66 (5):

Statistics 154 (1): Article 11. 688–701.

Kreif, Noémi, Richard Grieve, Dominik Hangartner, Rubin, Donald B. 1980. “Comment.” Journal of the

Alex James Turner, Silviya Nikolova, and Matt Sut- American Statistical Association 75 (371): 591–93.

ton. 2016. “Examination of the Synthetic Control Rubin, Donald B. 2007. “The Design versus the Analy-

Method for Evaluating Health Policies with Multiple sis of Observational Studies for Causal Effects: Paral-

Treated Units.” Health Economics 25 (12): 1514–28. lels with the Design of Randomized Trials.” Statistics

Li, Kathleen T. 2020. “Statistical Inference for Average in Medicine 26 (1): 20–36.

Treatment Effects Estimated by Synthetic Control Samartsidis, Pantelis, Shaun R. Seaman, Anne M.

Methods.” Journal of the American Statistical Asso- Presanis, Matthew Hickman, and Daniela De Ange-

ciation 115 (532): 2068–83. lis. 2019. “Assessing the Causal Effect of Binary

Neumark, David, and William Wascher. 2017. “Reply Interventions from Observational Panel Data with

to ‘Credible Research Designs for Minimum Wage Few Treated Units.” Statistical Science 34 (3):

Studies’.” ILR Review 70 (3): 593–609. 486–503.

Olken, Benjamin A. 2015. “Promises and Per- Thistlethwaite, Donald L., and Donald T. Campbell.

ils of Pre-analysis Plans.” Journal of Economic 1960. “Regression-Discontinuity Analysis: An Alter-

Perspectives 29 (3): 61–80. native to the Ex Post Facto Experiment.” Journal of

Peri, Giovanni, and Vasil Yasenov. 2019. “The Labor Educational Psychology 51 (6): 309–17.

Market Effects of a Refugee Wave: Synthetic Con- Viviano, Davide, and Jelena Bradic. 2019. “Synthetic

trol Method Meets the Mariel Boatlift.” Journal of Learner: Model-Free Inference on Treatments over

Human Resources 54 (2): 267–309. Time.” Available on arXiv at 1904.01490.

Pieters, Hannah, Daniele Curzi, Alessandro Olper, Xu, Yiqing. 2017. “Generalized Synthetic Control

and Johan Swinnen. 2017. “Effect of Democratic Method: Causal Inference with Interactive Fixed

Reforms on Child Mortality: A Synthetic Control Effects Models.” Political Analysis 25 (1): 57–76.



This article has been cited by:



1. Yiming Cao, Shuo Chen. 2022. Rebel on the Canal: Disrupted Trade Access and Social Conflict

in China, 1650–1911. American Economic Review 112:5, 1555-1590. [Abstract] [View PDF article]

[PDF with links]





