Roth file: Roth et al_2023_What’s trending in difference-in-differences.pdf


=== ROTH ET AL. 2023 ===
Total pages: 58

--- PAGE 1 ---
3202
naJ
9
]ME.noce[
3v49110.1022:viXra
What’s Trending in Difference-in-Differences?
A Synthesis of the Recent Econometrics Literature∗
Jonathan Roth† Pedro H. C. Sant’Anna‡ Alyssa Bilinski§ John Poe¶
January 11, 2023
Abstract
Thispapersynthesizesrecentadvancesintheeconometricsofdifference-in-differences
(DiD) and provides concrete recommendations for practitioners. We begin by articu-
lating a simple set of “canonical” assumptions under which the econometrics of DiD are
well-understood. We then argue that recent advances in DiD methods can be broadly
classified as relaxing some components of the canonical DiD setup, with a focus on piq
multiple periods and variation in treatment timing, piiq potential violations of parallel
trends, or piiiq alternative frameworks for inference. Our discussion highlights the dif-
ferentwaysthattheDiDliteraturehasadvancedbeyondthecanonicalmodel,andhelps
to clarify when each of the papers will be relevant for empirical work. We conclude by
discussing some promising areas for future research.
1 Introduction
Differences-in-differences (DiD) is one of the most popular methods in the social sciences for
estimating causal effects in non-experimental settings. The last few years have seen a dizzy-
ing array of new methodological papers on DiD and related designs, making it challenging
for practitioners to keep up with rapidly evolving best practices. Furthermore, the recent
literature has addressed a variety of different components of DiD analyses, which has made
it difficult even for experts in the field to understand how all of the new developments fit
∗WethankBrantCallaway,BrunoFerman,AndreasHagemann,KevinLang,DavidMcKenzie,andDavid
Schönholzer for helpful comments, and Scott Barkowskifor suggesting the title.
†Brown University. jonathanroth@brown.edu
‡Microsoft and Vanderbilt University. pedro.h.santanna@vanderbilt.edu
§Brown University. alyssa_bilinski@brown.edu
¶University of Michigan. john@johndavidpoe.com
1

--- PAGE 2 ---
together. In this paper, we attempt to synthesize some of the recent advances on DiD and
related designs and to provide concrete recommendations for practitioners.
Our starting point in Section 2 is the “canonical” difference-in-differences model, where
two timeperiodsareavailable, thereisatreatedpopulationofunits thatreceives atreatment
of interest beginning inthesecond period, anda comparison populationthatdoes not receive
the treatment in either period. The key identifying assumption is that the average outcome
among the treated and comparison populations would have followed “parallel trends” in
the absence of treatment. We also assume that the treatment has no causal effect before
its implementation (no anticipation). Together, these assumptions allow us to identify the
average treatment effect on the treated (ATT). If we observe a large number of independent
clustersfromthetreatedandcomparisonpopulations, theATTcanbeconsistently estimated
using a two-way fixed effects (TWFE) regression specification, and clustered standard errors
provide asymptotically valid inference.
Inpractice, DiDapplicationstypicallydonotmeetalloftherequirements ofthecanonical
DiD setup. The recent wave of DiD papers have each typically focused on relaxing one or
two of the key assumptions in the canonical framework while preserving the others. We
taxonomize the recent DiD literature by characterizing which of the key assumptions in
the canonical model are relaxed. We focus on recent advances that i allow for multiple
p q
periods and variation in treatment timing (Section 3); ii consider potential violations of
p q
parallel trends (Section 4); or iii depart from the assumption of observing a sample of
p q
many independent clusters sampled from a super-population (Section 5). Section 6 briefly
summarizes some other areas of innovation. In the remainder of the Introduction, we briefly
describe each of these strands of literature.
Multiple periods and variation in treatment timing: One strand of the DiD
literature has focused on settings where there are more than two time periods and units are
treated at different point in times. Multiple authors have noted that the coefficients from
standard TWFE models may not represent a straightforward weighted average of unit-level
treatment effects when treatment effects are allowed to be heterogeneous. In short, TWFE
regressions make both “clean” comparisons between treated and not-yet-treated units as well
as “forbidden” comparisons between units who are both already-treated. When treatment
effects are heterogeneous, these “forbidden” comparisons potentially lead to severe drawbacks
such as TWFE coefficients having the opposite sign of all individual-level treatment effects
due to “negative weighting” problems. Even if all of the weights are positive, the weights
“chosen” by TWFE regressions may not correspond with the most policy-relevant parameter.
We discuss a variety of straightforward-to-implement strategies that have been proposed
to bypass the limitations associated with TWFE regressions and estimate causal parameters
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
of interest under rich sources of treatment effect heterogeneity. These procedures rely on
generalizations of the parallel trends assumption to the multi-period setting. A common
theme is that these new estimators isolate “clean” comparisons between treated and not-yet-
treated groups, and then aggregate them using user-specified weights to estimate a target
parameter of economic interest. We discuss differences between some of the recent proposals
— such as the exact comparison group used and the generalization of the parallel trends
assumption needed for validity — and provide concrete recommendations for practitioners.
We also briefly discuss extensions to more complicated settings such as when treatments
turn on-and-off over time or are non-binary.
Non-parallel trends: A second strand of the DiD literature focuses on the possibility
that the parallel trends assumption may be violated. One set of papers considers the set-
ting where parallel trends holds only conditional on observed covariates, and proposes new
estimators that are valid under a conditional parallel trends assumption. However, even if
one conditions on observable covariates, there are often concerns that the necessary parallel
trends assumption may be violated due to time-varying unobserved confounding factors. It
is therefore common practice to test for pre-treatment differences in trends (“pre-trends”)
as a test of the plausibility of the (conditional) parallel trends assumption. While intuitive,
researchers have identified at least three issues with this pre-testing approach. First, the
absence of a significant pre-trend does not necessarily imply that parallel trends holds; in
fact, these tests often have low power. Second, conditioning the analysis on the result of
a pre-test can introduce additional statistical distortions from a selection effect known as
pre-test bias. Third, if a significant difference in trends is detected, we may still wish to
learn something about the treatment effect of interest.
Several recent papers have therefore suggested alternative methods for settings where
there is concern that parallel trends may be violated. One class of solutions involves modifi-
cations to the common practice of pre-trends testing to ensure that the power of pre-tests is
high against relevant violations of parallel trends. A second class of solutions has proposed
methods that remain valid under certain types of violations of parallel trends, such as when
the post-treatment violation of parallel trends is assumed to be no larger than the maximal
pre-treatment violation of parallel trends, or when there are non-treated groups that are
known to be more/less affected by the confounds as the treated group. These approaches
allow for a variety of robustness and sensitivity analyses which are useful in a wide range of
empirical settings, and we discuss them in detail.
Alternative sampling assumptions: A third strand of the DiD literature discusses
alternatives to the classical “sampling-based” approach to inference with a large number of
clusters. One topic of interest is inference procedures in settings with a small number of
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
treated clusters. Standard cluster-robust methods assume that there is a large number of
both treated and untreated clusters, and thus can perform poorly in this case. A variety of
alternatives with better properties have been proposed for this case, including permutation
and bootstrap procedures. These methods typically either model the dependence of errors
across clusters, or alternatively place restrictions on the treatment assignment mechanism.
We briefly highlight these approaches and discuss the different assumptions needed for them
to perform well.
Another direction that has been explored relates to conducting “design-based” inference
for DiD. Canonical approaches to inference suppose that we have access to a sample of
independently-drawn clusters from an infinite super-population. However, it is not always
clear how to define the super-population, or to determine the appropriate level of clustering.
Design-based approaches address these issues by instead treating the source of randomness
in the data as coming from the stochastic assignment of treatment, rather than sampling
from an infinite super-population. Although design-based approaches have typically been
employed inthe case of randomized experiments, recent work hasextended thisto the case of
“quasi-experimental” strategies like DiD. Luckily, the message of this literature is positive, in
the sense that methods that are valid from the canonical sampling-based view are typically
also valid from the design-based view as well. The design-based approach also yields the
clear recommendation that it is appropriate to cluster standard errors at the level at which
treatment is independently assigned.
Other topics: We conclude by briefly touching on some other areas of focus within the
DiD literature, as well ashighlighting some areasfor futureresearch. Examples include using
DiD to estimate distributional treatment effects; settings with quasi-random treatment tim-
ing; spillover effects; estimating heterogeneous treatment effects; and connections between
DiD and other panel data methods.
Overall, the growing DiD econometrics literature emphasizes the importance of clarity
and precision in a researcher’s discussion of his or her assumptions, comparison group and
time frame selection, causal estimands, estimation methods, and robustness checks. When
used in combination with context-specific information, these new methods can both improve
the validity and interpretability of DiD results and more clearly delineate their limitations.
Given thevast literature onDiD, our goalis not to be comprehensive, but rather to give a
cleanpresentationofsomeofthemostimportantdirectionstheliteraturehasgone. Wherever
possible, we try to give clear practical guidance for applied researchers, concluding each
section with practical recommendations for applied researchers. For reference, we include
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
Table 1, which contains a checklist for a practitioner implementing a DiD analysis, and Table
2, which lists R and Stata packages for implementing many of the methods described in this
paper.
2 The Basic Model
This section describes a simple two-period setting in which the econometrics of DiD are well-
understood. Although this “canonical” setting is arguably too simple for most applications,
clearlyarticulatingtheassumptions inthissetupserves asausefulbaselineforunderstanding
recent innovations in the DiD literature.
2.1 Treatment Assignment and Timing
Consider a model in which there are two time periods, t 1,2. Units indexed by i are
“
drawn from one of two populations. Units from the treated population D 1 receive a
i
p “ q
treatment of interest between period t 1 and t 2, whereas units from the untreated
“ “
(a.k.a. comparison or control) population D 0 remain untreated in both time periods.
i
p “ q
The econometrician observes an outcome Y and treatment status D for a panel of units,
i,t i
i 1,...,N and t 1,2. For example Y could be the fraction of people with insurance
i,t
“ “
coverage in state i in year t, while D could be an indicator for whether the state expanded
i
Medicaid in year 2. Although DiD methods also accommodate the case where only repeated
cross-sectional data is available, or where the panel is unbalanced, we focus on the simpler
setup with balanced panel data for ease of exposition.
2.2 Potential Outcomes and Target Parameter
We adopt a potential outcomes framework for the observed outcome, as in, e.g., Rubin
(1974) and Robins (1986). Let Y 0,0 denote unit i’s potential outcome in period t if i
i,t
p q
remains untreated in both periods. Likewise, let Y 0,1 denotes unit i’s potential outcome
i,t
p q
in period t if i is untreated in the first period but exposed to treatment by the second period.
To simplify notation we will write Y 0 Y 0,0 and Y 1 Y 0,1 , but it will be
i,t i,t i,t i,t
p q “ p q p q “ p q
useful for our later discussion to make clear that these potential outcomes in fact correspond
with a path of treatments. As is usually the case, due to the fundamental problem of causal
inference (Holland, 1986), we only observe one of the two potential outcomes for each unit
i. That is, the observed outcome is given by Y D Y 1 1 D Y 0 . This potential
i,t i i,t i i,t
“ p q`p ´ q p q
outcomesframeworkimplicitlyencodesthestableunittreatmentvalueassumption(SUTVA)
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
that unit i’s outcomes do not depend on the treatment status of unit j i, which rules out
‰
spillover and general equilibrium effects.
The causal estimand of primary interest in the canonical DiD setup is the average treat-
ment effect on the treated (ATT) in period t 2,
“
τ E Y 1 Y 0 D 1 .
2 i,2 i,2 i
“ r p q´ p q| “ s
It simply measures the average causal effect on treated units in the period that they are
treated (t 2). In our motivating example, τ 2 would be the average effect of Medicaid
“
expansion on insurance coverage in period 2 for the states who expanded Medicaid.
2.3 The Parallel Trends Assumption and Identification
The challenge in identifying τ 2 is that the untreated potential outcomes, Y i,2 0 , are never
p q
observed for the treated group (D 1). Difference-in-differences methods overcome this
i
“
identification challenge via assumptions that allow us to impute the mean counterfactual
untreated outcomes for the treated group by using (a) the change in outcomes for the un-
treated group and (b) the baseline outcomes for the treated group. The key assumption for
identifying τ 2 is the parallel trends assumption, which intuitively states that the average out-
come for the treated and untreated populations would have evolved in parallel if treatment
had not occurred.
Assumption 1 (Parallel Trends).
E Y i,2 0 Y i,1 0 D i 1 E Y i,2 0 Y i,1 0 D i 0 . (1)
r p q´ p q| “ s “ r p q´ p q| “ s
In our motivating example, the parallel trends assumption says that the average change in
insurance coverage for expansion and non-expansion states would have been the same in the
absence of the Medicaid expansion.
The parallel trends assumption can be rationalized by imposing a particular generative
model for the untreated potential outcomes. If Y 0 α φ ǫ , where ǫ is mean-
i,t i t i,t i,t
p q “ ` `
independent of D , then Assumption 1 holds. Note that this model allows treatment to be
i
assigned non-randomly based on characteristics that affect the level of the outcome α , but
i
p q
requires the treatment assignment to be mean-independent of variables that affect the trend
in the outcome (ǫ ). In other words, parallel trends allows for the presence of selection bias,
i,t
but the bias from selecting into treatment must be the same in period t 1 as it is in period
“
t 2.
“
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
Another important and often hidden assumption required for identification of τ 2 is the
no-anticipation assumption, which states that the treatment has no causal effect prior to its
implementation. This is important for identification of τ 2, since otherwise the changes in the
outcome for the treated group between period 1 and 2 could reflect not just the causal effect
in period t 2 but also the anticipatory effect in period t 1 (Abbring and van den Berg,
“ “
2003; Malani and Reif, 2015).
Assumption 2 (No anticipatory effects). Y i,1 0 Y i,1 1 for all i with D i 1.
p q “ p q “
In our ongoing example, this implies that in years prior to Medicaid expansion, insurance
coverage in states that expanded Medicaid was not affected by the upcoming Medicaid
expansion.
Under the parallel trends and no-anticipation assumptions, the ATT in period 2 (τ 2) is
identified. To see why this is the case, observe that by re-arranging terms in the parallel
trends assumption (see equation (1)), we obtain
E Y 0 D 1 E Y 0 D 1 E Y 0 Y 0 D 0 .
i,2 i i,1 i i,2 i,1 i
r p q| “ s “ r p q| “ s` r p q´ p q| “ s
Further, by the no anticipation assumption, E Y i,1 0 D i 1 E Y i,1 1 D i 1 .1 It
r p q| “ s “ r p q| “ s
follows that
E Y 0 D 1 E Y 1 D 1 E Y 0 Y 0 D 0
i,2 i i,1 i i,2 i,1 i
r p q| “ s “ r p q| “ s` r p q´ p q| “ s
E Y D 1 E Y Y D 0 ,
i,1 i i,2 i,1 i
“ r | “ s` r ´ | “ s
where the second equality uses the fact that we observe Y 1 for treated units and Y 0 for
p q p q
untreated units. The previous display shows that we can infer the counterfactual average
outcome for the treated group by taking its observed pre-treatment mean and adding the
changeinmeanfortheuntreatedgroup. Sinceweobserve Y 1 forthetreatedgroupdirectly,
p q
it follows that τ 2 E Y i,2 1 Y i,2 0 D i 1 is identified as
“ r p q´ p q| “ s
τ 2 E Y i,2 Y i,1 D i 1 E Y i,2 Y i,1 D i 0 , (2)
“ r ´ | “ s´ r ´ | “ s
ChangeforDi“1 ChangeforDi“0
loooooooooooomoooooooooooon loooooooooooomoooooooooooon
i.e. the “difference-in-differences” of population means!
1For the identification argument, it suffices to impose only that ErY i,1p0q|D
i
“1s “ ErY i,1p1q|D
i
“1s
directly, i.e. that there is no anticipation on average,which is slightly weaker than Assumption 2. We focus
on Assumption 2 for ease of exposition (especially when we extend it to the staggeredcase below).
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
2.4 Estimation and Inference
Equation (2) gives an expression for τ 2 in terms of a “difference-in-differences” of population
expectations. Therefore, a natural way to estimate τ 2 is to replace expectations with their
sample analogs,
τ Y Y Y Y ,
2 t“2,D“1 t“1,D“1 t“2,D“0 t“1,D“0
“ p ´ q´p ´ q
where Y t“t1,D“d is thpe sample mean of Y for treatment group d in period t1.
Although these sample means could be computed “by hand”, an analogous way of com-
puting τ 2, which facilitates the computation of standard errors, is to use the two-way fixed
effects (TWFE) regression specification
p
Y α φ 1 t 2 D β ǫ , (3)
i,t i t i i,t
“ ` `p r “ s¨ q `
which regresses the outcome Y on an individual fixed effect, a time fixed effect, and an
i,t
interaction of a post-treatment indicator with treatment status.2 In this canonical DiD
setup, it is straightforward to show that the ordinary least squares (OLS) coefficient β is
equivalent to τ 2.
p
OLS estimates of β from (3) provide consistent estimates and asymptotically valid con-
fidence interva p ls of τ 2 when Assumptions 1 and 2 are combined with the assumption of
p
independent sampling.
Assumption 3. Let W i Y i,2 ,Y i,1 ,D i 1 denote the vector of outcomes and treatment status
“ p q
for unit i. We observe a sample of N i.i.d. draws W F for some distribution F satisfying
i
„
parallel trends.
Under Assumptions 1-3 and mild regularity conditions,
?n β τ N 0, σ 2 ,
2 d
p ´ q Ñ
in the asymptotic as N and T is fixed. Th ` e var ˘ iance σ2 is consistently estimable
p
Ñ 8
using standard clustering methods that allow for arbitrary serial correlation at the unit level
(Liang and Zeger,1986;Arellano,1987;Wooldridge,2003;Bertrand, Duflo and Mullainathan,
2 With a balanced panel, the OLS coefficient on β is also numerically identical to the coefficient from a
regression that replaces the fixes effects with a constant, a treatment indicator, a second-period indicator,
and the treatment ˆ second-period interaction,
Y “α`D θ`1rt“2sζ`p1rt“2s¨D qβ`ε .
i,t i i i,t
The latter regressiongeneralizes to repeated cross-sectionaldata.
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
2004). The same logic easily extends to cases where the observations are individual units
who are members of independently-sampled clusters (e.g. states), and the standard errors
are clustered at the appropriate level, provided that the number of treated and untreated
clusters both grow large. Constructing consistent point estimates and asymptotically valid
confidence intervals is thus straightforward via OLS.
Having introduced all of the components of the “canonical” DiD model, we now discuss
the ways that different strands of the recent DiD have relaxed each of these components.
3 Relaxing assumptions on treatment assignment and
timing
Several recent papers have focused primarily on relaxing the baseline assumptions about
treatment assignment and timing discussed in Section 2. A topic of considerable attention
has been settings where there are more than two periods, and units adopt a treatment
of interest at different points in time. For example, in practice different states expanded
Medicaid in different years. We provide an overview of some of the key developments in the
literature, and refer the reader to the review by de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2022)
for additional details.
3.1 Generalized model with staggered treatment adoption
Several recent papers have focused on relaxing the timing assumptions discussed in Section
2, while preserving the remaining structure of the stylized model (i.e., parallel trends, no
anticipation, and independent sampling). Since most of the recent literature considers a
setup in which treatment is an absorbing state, we start with that framework; in Section
3.4, we discuss extensions to the case where treatment can turn on and off or is non-binary.
We introduce the following assumptions and notation, which captures the primary setting
studied in this literature.
Treatment timing. There are T periods indexed by t 1,...,T, and units can receive a
“
binary treatment of interest in any of the periods t 1. Treatment is an absorbing state, so
ą
that once a unit is treated they remain treated for the remainder of the panel. We denote by
D an indicator for whether unit i receives treatment in period t, and G min t : D 1
i,t i i,t
“ t “ u
the earliest period at which unit i has received treatment. If i is never treated during the
sample, then G . Treatment is an absorbing state, so that D 1 for all t G .
i i,t i
“ 8 “ ě
Thus, for example, a state that first expanded Medicaid in 2014 would have G 2014, a
i
“
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
state that first expanded Medicaid in 2015 would have G 2015, and a state that has not
i
“
expanded Medicaid by time t T would have G .
i
“ “ 8
Potential outcomes. We extend the potential outcomes framework introduced above to
the multi-period setting. Let 0 and 1 denote s-dimensional vectors of zeros and ones,
s s
respectively. We denote unit i’s potential outcome in period t if they were first treated at
time g by Y i,t 0 g´1 ,1 T´g`1 , and denote by Y i,t 0 T their “never-treated” potential outcome.
p q p q
This notation again makes explicit that potential outcomes can depend on the entire path of
treatment assignments. Since we have assumed that treatment “stays on” once it is turned
on, the entire path of potential outcomes is summarized by the first treatment date g ,
p q
and so to simplify notation we can index potential outcomes by treatment starting time:
Y i,t g Y i,t 0 g´1 ,1 T´g`1 and Y i,t Y i,t 0 T .3 Thus, for example, Y i,2016 2014 would
p q “ p q p8q “ p q p q
represent the insurance coverage in state i in 2016 if they had first expanded Medicaid in
2014.
Parallel trends. Thereareseveralwaystoextendthecanonicalparalleltrendsassumption
to the staggered setting. The simplest extension of the parallel trends assumption to the
staggered case requires that the two-group, two-period version of parallel trends holds for all
combinations of periods and all combinations of “groups” treated at different times.
Assumption 4 (Parallel trends for staggered setting). For all t t1 and g g1,
‰ ‰
E Y i,t Y i,t1 G i g E Y i,t Y i,t1 G i g1 . (4)
r p8q´ p8q| “ s “ r p8q´ p8q| “ s
This assumption imposes that in the counterfactual where treatment had not occurred, the
average outcomes for all adoption groups would have evolved in parallel. Thus, for example,
Assumption 4 would imply that — if there had been no Medicaid expansions — insurance
rates would have evolved in parallel on average for all groups of states that adopted Medicaid
expansion in different years, including those who never expanded Medicaid.
Several variants of Assumption 4 have been considered in the literature. For example,
Callaway and Sant’Anna (2021) consider a relaxation of Assumption 4 that imposes (4) only
for years after some units are treated:
3If one were to map this staggered potential outcome notation to the one used in canonical DiD setups,
we would write Y p2q and Y p8q instead of Y p1q and Y p0q as defined in Section 2.2, respectively. We
i,t i,t i,t i,t
usetheY p0q,Y p1qnotationinSection2.2becauseitislikelymorefamiliartothereader,andwidelyused
i,t i,t
in the literature on the canonical model.
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
Assumption 4.a (Parallel trends for staggered setting - post-treatment only).
E Y i,t Y i,t1 G i g E Y i,t Y i,t1 G i g1 .
r p8q´ p8q| “ s “ r p8q´ p8q| “ s
for all t,t1 g 1, where g minG is the first period where a unit is treated.
min min
ě ´ “
This would require, for example, that groups of states that expanded Medicaid at different
times have parallel trends in Y after Medicaid expansion began, but does not necessar-
i,t
p8q
ily impose parallel trends in the pre-treatment period. Likewise, several papers, including
Callaway and Sant’Anna (2021) and Sun and Abraham (2021), consider versions that im-
pose (4) only for groups that are eventually treated, and not for the never-treated group (i.e.
excluding g ). This would impose, for example, parallel trends among states that even-
“ 8
tually expanded Medicaid, but not between eventually-adopting and never-adopting states.
There are tradeoffs between the different forms of Assumption 4: imposing parallel trends
for all groups and all periods is a stronger assumption and thus may be less plausible; on the
other hand, it may allow one to obtain more precise estimates.4 We return to these tradeoffs
in our discussion of different estimators for the staggered case below.5
No anticipation. The no-anticipation assumption from the canonical model also extends
in a straightforward way to the staggered setting. Intuitively, it imposes that if a unit is
untreated in period t, their outcome does not depend on what time period they will be
treated in the future — that is, units do not act on the knowledge of their future treatment
date before treatment starts.
Assumption 5 (Staggerednoanticipationassumption). Y g Y for all i and t g.
i,t i,t
p q “ p8q ă
3.2 Interpreting the estimand of two-way fixed effects models
Recall that in the simple two-period model, the estimand (population coefficient) of the two-
way fixed effects specification (3) corresponds with the ATT under the parallel trends and
no anticipation assumptions. A substantial focus of the recent literature has been whether
the estimand of commonly-used generalizations of this TWFE model to the multi-period,
4Ifallunitsareeventuallytreated,thenimposingparalleltrendsonlyamongtreatedunits alsolimits the
number of periods for which the ATT is identified.
5In this paper, we specify the parallel trends assumption based on groups defined by the treatment
startingdate. Itisalsopossibletoadoptalternativedefinitionsofparalleltrendsusinggroupsthataremore
disaggregatedthan our G. For instance, one could impose parallel trends for all pairs of states, rather than
for groups of states with the same treatment start date. Using a more disaggregated definition of a group
strengthens the paralleltrends assumption, but couldpotentially enable more efficientestimators. We focus
on the group-level version of parallel trends for simplicity.
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
staggered timing case have a similar, intuitive causal interpretation. In short, the literature
has shown that the estimand of TWFE specifications in the staggered setting often does
not correspond with an intuitive causal parameter even under the natural extensions of the
parallel trends and no-anticipation assumptions described above.
Static TWFE. We begin with a discussion of the “static” TWFE specification, which
regresses the outcome on individual and period fixed effects and an indicator for whether
the unit i is treated in period t,
Y α φ D β ǫ . (5)
i,t i t i,t post i,t
“ ` ` `
The static specification yields a sensible estimand when there is no heterogeneity in
treatment effects across either time or units. Formally, let τ g Y g Y . Suppose
i,t i,t i,t
p q “ p q´ p8q
that for all units i, τ g τ whenever t g. This imposes that (1) all units have the
i,t
p q “ ě
same treatment effect, and (2) the treatment has the same effect regardless of how long it
has been since treatment started. In our ongoing example, this would impose that the effect
of Medicaid expansion on insurance coverage is the same both across states and across time.
Then, under a suitable generalization of the parallel trends assumption (e.g. Assumption 4)
and no anticipation assumption (Assumption 5), the population regression coefficient β
post
from (5) is equal to τ.
Issues arise with the static specification, however, when there is heterogeneity of treat-
menteffectsovertime,asshowninBorusyak and Jaravel(2018),de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille
(2020), and Goodman-Bacon (2021), among others. Suppose first that there is heterogeneity
in time since treatment only. That is, τ g τ 1 t g s , so all units have treat-
i,t
p q “
sě0 s
r ´ “ s
ment effect τ in the s-th period after they receive treatment. In this case, β corresponds
s ř post
with a potentially non-convex weighted average of the parameters τ , i.e. β ω τ ,
s post “ s s s
where the weights ω sum to 1 but may be negative. The possibility of negative weights
s ř
is concerning because, for instance, all of the τ could be positive and yet the coefficient
s
β may be negative! In particular, longer-run treatment effects will often receive negative
post
weights. Thus, for example, it is possible that the effect of Medicaid expansion on insurance
coverage is positive and grows over time since the expansion, and yet β in (5) will be
post
negative. More generally, if treatment effects vary across both time and units, then τ g
i,t
p q
may get negative weight in the TWFE estimand for some combinations of t and g.6
Goodman-Bacon (2021) provides some helpful intuition to understand this phenomenon.
6We focus in this section on decompositions of the static TWFE model in a standard, sampling-based
framework. Athey and Imbens (2022) study the static specification in a finite-sample randomization-based
framework.
12

--- PAGE 13 ---
He shows that β can be written as a convex weighted average of differences-in-differences
post
comparisons between pairs of units and time periods in which one unit changed its treat-
p
ment status and the other did not. Counterintuitively, however, this decomposition includes
difference-in-differences that use as a “control” group units who were treated in earlier peri-
ods. For example, in 2016, a state that first expanded Medicaid in 2014 might be used as the
“control group” for a state that first adopted Medicaid in 2016. Hence, an early-treated unit
canget negative weights if itappears asa“control” formany later-treatedunits. This decom-
position further highlights that β may not be a sensible estimand when treatment effects
post
differ across either units or time, because of its inclusion of these “forbidden comparisons”.7
Wenowgivesomemoremathematicalintuitionforwhyweighting issues ariseinthestatic
specification with heterogeneity. From the Frisch-Waugh-Lovell theorem, the coefficient β
post
from(5)isequivalent tothecoefficient fromaunivariateregressionofY onD D , where
i,t i,t i,t
´
D is the predicted value from a regression of D on the other right-hand side variables in
i,t i,t
˜ p
(5), D α˜ φ u . However, a well-known issue with OLS with binary outcomes is that
i,t i t i,t
p “ ` `
its predictions may fall outside the unit interval. If the predicted value D is greater than
i,t
1, then D D will be negative even when a unit is treated, and thus that unit’s outcome
i,t i,t
´ p
will get negative weight in β . To see this more formally, we can apply the formula for
post
p
univariate OLS coefficients to obtain that
p
D D Y
β i,tp i,t ´ i,t q i,t . (6)
post
“ D D 2
ř i,tp i,t ´p i,t q
p
The denominator is positive, and so theřweight that β places on Y is proportional to
p post i,t
D D . Thus, if D 1 and D D 0, then β will be decreasing in Y even
i,t i,t i,t i,t i,t post i,t
´ “ ´ ă p
though unit i is treated at period t. But because Y Y τ g , it follows that τ g
i,t i,t i,t i,t
p p “ pp8q` p q p q
gets negative weight in β .
post
These negative weights will tend to arise for early-treated units in periods late in the
p
sample. To see why this isthecase, we notethatsome algebra shows that D D D D,
i,t i t
“ ` ´
where D T´1 D is the time average of D for unit i, D N´1 D is the cross-
sectional
i
a
“
verage o
t
f D
i,t
for period t, and D NT
´1
D
t “
is the av
p
e
i
rag
i,
e
t
of D across
ř “ p q i,t i,t ř
both periods and units. It follows that if we have a unit that has been treated for almost all
ř
periods (D 1) and a period in which almost all units have been treated (D 1), then
i t
« «
D 2 D, which will be strictly greater than 1 if there is a non-substantial fraction of
i,t
« ´
non-treated units in some period D 1 . We thus see that β will tend to put negative
post
p p ă q
weight on τ for early-adopters in late periods within the sample. This decomposition makes
i,t
p
7To the best of our knowledge, the phrase “forbidden comparisons” was introduced in
Borusyak and Jaravel(2018).
13

--- PAGE 14 ---
clear that the static OLS coefficient β is not aggregating natural comparisons of units,
post
and thus will not produce a sensible estimand when there is arbitrary heterogeneity. When
p
treatment effects are homogeneous – i.e. τ g τ – the negative weights on τ for some
i,t
p q ”
units cancel out the positive weights on other units, and thus β recovers the causal effect
post
under a suitable generalization of parallel trends.
Dynamic TWFE. Next, we turn our attention to the “dynamic specification” that re-
gresses the outcome on individual and period fixed effects, as well as dummies for time
relative to treatment
Y α φ 1 R r β ǫ , (7)
i,t i t i,t r i,t
“ ` ` r “ s `
r‰0
ÿ
where R t G 1 is the time relative to treatment (e.g. R 1 in the first treated
i,t i i,t
“ ´ ` “
period for unit i), and the summation runs over all possible values of R except for 0.
it
Unlike the static specification, the dynamic specification yields a sensible causal esti-
mand when there is heterogeneity only in time since treatment. In particular, the re-
sults in Borusyak and Jaravel (2018) and Sun and Abraham (2021) imply that if τ g
i,t
p q “
τ 1 t g s , so all units have treatment effect τ in the s-th period after treatment,
sě0 s
r ´ “ s
s
thenβ τ under suitablegeneralizations oftheparalleltrends andno anticipationassump-
ř s s
“
tions, such as Assumptions 4 and 5.8 Thus, specification (7) will yield sensible estimates for
the dynamic effect of Medicaid expansion if the effect r years after Medicaid expansion is
the same (on average) regardless of what year the state initially expanded coverage (for each
r 1,2,...).
“
Sun and Abraham (2021) show, however, that when there are heterogeneous dynamic
treatment effects across adoption cohorts, the coefficients from specification (7) become
difficult to interpret. Thus, for example, problems may arise if the average treatment effect
in the first year after adoption is different for states that adopted Medicaid in 2014 as
it is for states that adopted in 2015.9 There are two issues. First, as with the “static”
regression specification above, the coefficient β may put negative weight on the treatment
r
effect r periods after treatment for some units. Thus, for example, the treatment effect
for some states two years after Medicaid expansion may enter β 2 negatively. Second, the
8We note that the homogeneity assumption can be relaxed so that all adoption cohorts have the same
expected treatment effect, i.e. Erτ i,g`s pgq|G“gs ” τ s for all s and g. Additionally, these results as-
sume that all possible relative time indicators are included. As discussed in Sun and Abraham (2021),
Baker, Larcker and Wang (2022), and Schmidheiny and Siegloch (2020), among others, problems may arise
if one “bins” endpoints (e.g. includes a dummy for 5` years since treatment).
9Thatis, ifthe effect in2015forthe 2014adoptioncohortis differentfromthe effectin2016for the 2015
adoption cohort.
14

--- PAGE 15 ---
coefficient β can put non-zero weight on treatment effects at lags r1 r, so there is cross-lag
r
‰
“contamination.” Thus, for example, the coefficient β 2 may be influenced by the treatment
effect for some states three periods after Medicaid expansion.
Likethestaticspecification, thedynamicspecificationthusfailstoyieldsensibleestimates
of dynamic causal effects under heterogeneity across cohorts. The derivation of this result
is mathematically more complex, and so we do not pursue it here. The intuition is that, as
in the static case, the dynamic OLS specification does not aggregate natural comparisons of
units and includes “forbidden comparisons” between sets of units both of which have already
been treated. An important implication of the results derived by Sun and Abraham (2021)
is that if treatment effects are heterogeneous, the “treatment lead” coefficients from (7) are
not guaranteed to be zero even if parallel trends is satisfied in all periods (and vice versa),
and thus evaluation of pre-trends based on these coefficients can be very misleading.
3.2.1 Diagnostic approaches
Several recent papers introduce diagnostic approaches for understanding the extent of the
aggregation issues under staggered treatment timing, with a focus on the static specification
(5). de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020) propose reporting the number/fraction of
group-time ATTs that receive negative weights, as well as the degree of heterogeneity in
treatment effects that would be necessary for the estimated treatment effect to have the
“wrong sign.” Goodman-Bacon (2021) proposes reporting the weights that β places on
post
the different 2-group, 2-period difference-in-differences, which allows one to evaluate how
p
much weight is being placed on “forbidden” comparisons of already-treated units and how
removing the comparisons would change the estimate. Jakiela (2021) proposes evaluating
both whether TWFE places negative weights on some treated units and whether the data
rejects the constant treatment effects assumption.
3.3 New Estimators For Staggered Timing
Several recent papers have proposed alternative estimators that more sensibly aggregate
heterogeneous treatment effects in settings with staggered treatment timing. The derivation
of each of these estimators follows a similar logic to the derivation of the DiD estimator in
the motivating example in Section 2. We begin by specifying a causal parameter of interest
(analogous to the ATT τ 2). With the help of the (generalized) parallel trends and no-
anticipation assumptions, we can infer the counterfactual outcomes for treated units using
trends inoutcomes for anappropriatelychosen “clean” control groupofuntreated units. This
allows us to express the target parameter in terms of identified expectations, analogous to
15

--- PAGE 16 ---
equation (2). Finally, we replace population expectations with sample averages to form an
estimator of the target parameter.
The Callaway and Sant’Anna estimator. Wefirstdescribeindetailtheapproachtaken
by Callaway and Sant’Anna (2021), and then discuss the connections to other approaches.
They consider as a building block the group-time average treatment effect on the treated,
ATT g,t E Y g Y G g , which gives the average treatment effect at time t
i,t i,t i
p q “ r p q´ p8q| “ s
for the cohort first treated in time g. For example ATT 2014,2016 would be the average
p q
treatment effect in 2016 for states who first expanded Medicaid in 2014. They then consider
identification and estimation under generalizations of the parallel trends assumption to the
staggered setting.10 Intuitively, under the staggered versions of the parallel trends and no
anticipation assumptions, we can identify ATT g,t by comparing the expected change in
p q
outcome for cohort g between periods g 1 and t to that for a control group not-yet treated
´
at period t. Formally, under Assumption 4.a,
ATT g,t E Y i,t Y i,g´1 G i g E Y i,t Y i,g´1 G i g1 , for any g1 t
p q “ r ´ | “ s´ r ´ | “ s ą
which can be viewed as the multi-period analog of the identification result in equation (2).
Since this holds for any comparison group g1 t, it also holds if we average over some set of
ą
comparisons G such that g1 t for all g1 G ,
comp comp
ą P
ATT g,t E Y Y G g E Y Y G G .
i,t i,g´1 i i,t i,g´1 i comp
p q “ r ´ | “ s´ r ´ | P s
We can then estimate ATT g,t by replacing expectations with their sample analogs,
p q
1 1
ATT g,t Y i,t Y i,g´1 Y i,t Y i,g´1 . (8)
p q “ N r ´ s´ N r ´ s
g i: ÿ Gi“g G comp i:Giÿ PG comp
z
Specifically, Callaway and Sant’Anna (2021) consider two options for G . The first uses
comp
onlynever-treated units(G )andthesecond uses allnot-yet-treatedunits (G
comp comp
“ t8u “
g1 : g1 t ).11 When there are a relatively small number of periods and treatment cohorts,
t ą u
reporting ATT g,t for all relevant g,t may be reasonable.
p q p q
Whentherearemanytreatedperiodsand/orcohorts,however, reportingalltheATT g,t
z p q
may be cumbersome, and each one may be imprecisely estimated. Thankfully, the method
z
10Callaway and Sant’Anna(2021)alsoconsidergeneralizationswheretheparalleltrendsassumptionholds
only conditionaloncovariates. We discuss this extensioninSection4.2 below,but focus fornow onthe case
without covariates.
11We note that if the never-treatedunits are not included in the comparisongroup (i.e. 8RG ), then
comp
one can rely on a weaker version of Assumption 4.a that excludes the never-treated group.
16

--- PAGE 17 ---
described above extends easily to estimating any weighted average of the ATT g,t . For in-
p q
stance, we may be interested in an“event-study” parameter that gives the (weighted) average
of the treatment effect l periods after adoption across different adoption cohorts,
ATTw w ATT g,g l . (9)
l g
“ p ` q
g
ÿ
Theweightsw couldbechosentoweightdifferentcohortsequally,orintermsoftheirrelative
g
frequenciesinthetreatedpopulation. ItisstraightforwardtoformestimatesforATTw byav-
l
eragingtheestimatesATT g,t discussedabove. WereferthereadertoCallaway and Sant’Anna
p q
(2021) for a discussion of a variety of other weighted averages that may be economically rele-
z
vant. Inference is straightforward using either the delta method or a bootstrap, as described
in Callaway and Sant’Anna (2021).
This alternative approach to estimation has two primary advantages over standard static
or dynamic TWFE regressions. The first is that it provides sensible estimands even under
arbitrary heterogeneity of treatment effects. By sensible we mean both that the approach
avoids negative weighting, but also that the weighting of effects across cohorts is specified
by the researcher (e.g. proportional to cohort size) rather than determined by OLS (i.e.
proportional to the variance of the treatment indicator). The second advantage is that
it makes transparent exactly which units are being used as a control group to infer the
unobserved potential outcomes. This contrasts with standard TWFE models, which we
have seen make unintuitive comparisons under staggered timing.
Imputation estimators. Borusyak, Jaravel and Spiess(2021)introducearelatedapproach
which theyrefer toasanimputationestimator (see, also, Gardner(2021), Liu, Wang and Xu
(2022) and Wooldridge (2021) for similar proposals). Specifically, they fit a TWFE regres-
sion, Y α λ ǫ , using observations only for units and time periods that are
i,t i t i,t
p8q “ ` `
not-yet-treated. They then infer the never-treated potential outcome for each treated unit
using the predicted value from this regression, Y . This provides an estimate of the
i,t
p8q
treatment effect for each treated unit, Y Y , and these individual-level estimates can
i,t i,t
´ p8pq
be aggregated to form estimates of summary parameters like the ATT g,t described above.
p p q
These approaches yield valid estimates when parallel trends holds for all groups and time
periods and there is no anticipation (Assumptions 4 and 5).
Comparison ofCS andBJSapproaches. HowdoestheapproachproposedbyCallaway and Sant’Anna
(2021, CS) compare to that proposed by Borusyak et al. (2021, BJS)? For simplicity, it is in-
structive to consider a simple non-staggeredsetting where there arethree periods(t 1,2,3)
“
17

--- PAGE 18 ---
and units are either treated in period 3 or never-treated (G 3, ). In this case, the CS
“ t 8u
estimator for the treated group in period 3 (i.e. ATT 3,3 ) is simply a DiD comparing the
p q
treated/untreated units between periods 2 and 3,
ATT 3,3 Y ¯ Y ¯ Y ¯ Y ¯ ,
3,3 3,8 2,3 2,8
p q “ p ´ q´p ´ q
Diffatt“3 Diffatt“2
z
loooooomoooooon loooooomoooooon
¯
where Y is the average outcome in period t for units with G g. By contrast, the BJS
t,g i
“
estimator runs a similar DiD, except instead of using period 2 as the baseline, the BJS
estimator uses the average outcome prior to treatment (across periods 1 and 2),
ATT 3,3 Y ¯ Y ¯ Y ¯ Y ¯ ,
BJS 3,3 3,8 pre,3 pre,8
p q “ p ´ q´ p ´ q
Diffatt“3 AvgDiffinPre-Periods
z
¯ 1 ¯ ¯ loooooomoooooon loooooooomoooooooon
where Y pre,g 2 Y 1,g Y 2,g is the average outcome for cohort g across the two pre-treatment
“ p ` q
periods. Thus, we see that the key difference between the CS and BJS estimators is that
CS makes all comparisons relative to the last pre-treament period, whereas BJS makes com-
parisons relative to the average of the pre-treatment periods. This primary difference in how
the two approaches use pre-treatment periods extends beyond this simple case to settings
with staggered timing, although the math becomes substantially more complicated in the
staggered case (and thus we do not pursue it).
What are the pros and cons of using the last pre-treatment period versus the average
of the pre-treatment periods? In general, there will be tradeoffs between efficiency and
the strength of the identifying assumption. On the one hand, averaging over multiple pre-
treatment periods can increase precision. Indeed, BJS prove that when Assumption 4 holds,
their estimator is efficient under homoskedasticity and serially uncorrelated errors; see also
Wooldridge (2021). Although these ideal conditions are unlikely to be satisfied exactly, it
does suggest that their estimator will tend to be more efficient than CS when the outcome
is not too heteroskedastic or serially correlated.12 On the other hand, the two approaches
require different identifying assumptions: in the simple example above, CS only relies on
parallel trends between periods 2 and 3, whereas BJS relies on parallel trends for all three
periods.13 More generally, the BJS approach imposes parallel trends for all groups and time
periods (Assumption 4), whereas the CS approach only relies on post-treatment parallel
trends (Assumption 4.a). Relying on parallel trends over a longer time horizon may lead
12By contrast,notethatifY
i,t
p0qfollowsarandomwalk,thenY i,3p0qisindependent ofY i,1p0qconditional
on Y i,2p0q, and thus it is efficient to ignore the earlier pre-treatment periods as CS does.
13Or more precisely, between the average outcome in periods 1 and 2, and period 3. See also
Marcus and Sant’Anna (2021) for a discussion about different parallel trends assumptions.
18

--- PAGE 19 ---
to larger biases if the parallel trends assumption holds only approximately: for example,
if the average untreated potential outcome is increasing faster among treated units than
untreated units over time, then the violation of parallel trends is larger when we compare
periods farther apart, and thus the BJS estimator using periods 1 and 2 as the compari-
son will have larger bias than the CS estimator using only period 2; see Roth (2018) and
de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2022) for additional discussion. Thus, the BJS esti-
mator may be preferable in settings where the outcome is not too serially correlated and the
researcher is confident in parallel trends across all periods; whereas the CS estimator may
be preferred in settings where serial correlation is high or the researcher is concerned about
the validity of parallel trends over longer time horizons.14
Other related approaches. Severalotherrecentpapersproposesimilarestimationstrate-
gies to those described above — although with some subtle differences in how they con-
struct the control group and the weights they place on different cohorts/time periods.
de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020) propose an estimator that can be applied when
treatment turns on and off (see Section 3.4 below), but in the context of the staggered set-
ting herecorresponds with theCallaway andSant’Anna estimator forATTw anda particular
0
choice ofweights. Sun and Abraham(2021) proposeanestimator thattakes theform(8) but
uses either the never-treated units (if they exist) or the last-to-be-treated units as the com-
parison (G max G ), rather than the not-yet-treated. Marcus and Sant’Anna (2021)
comp i i
“ t u
propose a recursive estimator that more efficiently exploits the identifying assumptions in
Callaway and Sant’Anna (2021). See, also, Imai and Kim (2021) and Strezhnev (2018) for
closely related ideas. Another related approach is to run a stacked regression where each
treated unit is matched to ‘clean’ (i.e. not-yet-treated) controls and there are separate fixed
effects for each set of treated units and its control, as in Cengiz, Dube, Lindner and Zipperer
(2019) among others. Gardner (2021) shows that this approach estimates a convex weighted
average of the ATT g,t under parallel trends and no anticipation, although the weights are
p q
determined by the number of treated units and variance of treatment within each stacked
event, rather than by economic considerations.
3.4 Further extensions to treatment timing/assignment
Ourdiscussionsofarhasfocusedonthecasewherethereisabinarytreatmentthatisadopted
at a particular date and remains on afterwards. Several recent papers have studied settings
14We also note that the BJS and CS estimators incorporate covariates differently. BJS adjust linearly for
covariates,where CS consider more general adjustments as described in Section 4.2.
19

--- PAGE 20 ---
with more complicated forms of treatment assignment. We briefly highlight a few of the re-
cent contributions, and refer the reader to the review in de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille
(2022) for more details.
de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020) and Imai and Kim (2021) consider settings
where units are treated at different times, but do not necessarily require that treatment is an
absorbing state. Their estimators intuitively compare changes in outcomes for units whose
treatment status changed to other units whose treatment status remained constant over the
same periods. This approach yields an interpretable causal effect under generalizations of
the parallel trends assumption and and an additional “no carryover” assumption that im-
poses that the potential outcomes depend only on current treatment status and not on the
full treatment history. We note that, as described in Bojinov, Rambachan and Shephard
(2021), the no carryover assumption may be restrictive in many settings — for exam-
ple, if the treatment is a raise in the minimum wage and the outcome is employment,
then the no carryover assumption requires that employment in period t depends only on
whether the minimum wage was raised in period t and not on the history of minimum
wage changes. Recent work has begun to relax the no carryover assumption: one exam-
ple is de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfoeuille (2022), who allow potential outcomes to depend
on the full path of treatments, and instead impose a stronger parallel trends assumption
that requires parallel trends in untreated potential outcomes regardless of a unit’s path of
treatment.
OtherworkhasconsideredDiDsettingswithnon-binarytreatments. de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille
(2018)study“fuzzy” DiDsettingsinwhichallgroupsaretreatedinbothtimeperiods,butthe
proportionof units exposed to treatment increases inone groupbut not in theother. Finally,
de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2021) and Callaway, Goodman-Bacon and Sant’Anna
(2021) study settings with multi-valued or continuous treatments.
3.5 Recommendations
Theresults discussed aboveshow thatwhileconventional TWFEspecifications make sensible
comparisons of treated and untreated units in the canonical two-period DiD setting, in the
staggered case they typically make “forbidden comparisons” between already-treated units.
As a result, treatment effects for some units and time periods receive negative weights in the
TWFE estimand. In extreme cases, this can lead the TWFE estimand to have the “wrong
sign” —e.g., theestimandmaybenegativeeven ifallthetreatment effectsarepositive. Even
if the weights are not so extreme as to create sign reversals, it may nevertheless be difficult
to interpret which comparisons the TWFE estimator is making, as the “control group” is not
20

--- PAGE 21 ---
transparent, and the weights it chooses are unlikely to be those most relevant for economic
policy.
In our view, if the researcher is not willing to impose assumptions on treatment effect
heterogeneity, the most direct remedy for this problem is to use the methods discussed
in Section 3.3 that explicitly specify the comparisons to be made between treatment and
control groups, as well as the desired weights in the target parameter. These methods allow
one to estimate a well-defined causal parameter (under parallel trends), with transparent
weights and transparent comparison groups (e.g. not-yet-treated or never-treated units).
This approach, in our view, provides a more complete solution to the problem than the
diagnostic approaches discussed in Section 3.2.1. Although it is certainly valuable to have a
sense of the extent to which conventional TWFE specifications are making bad comparisons,
eliminating these undesirable comparisons seems to us a better approach thandiagnosing the
extent of the issue. Using a TWFE specification may be justified for efficiency reasons if one
is confident that treatment effects are homogeneous, but researchers will often be unwilling
to restrict treatment effect heterogeneity.
The question of which of the many heterogeneity-robust DiD methods discussed in Sec-
tion 3.3 to use is trickier. As described above, the estimators differ in who they use as the
comparison group (e.g. not-yet-treated versus never-treated) as well as the pre-treatment
time periods used in the comparisons (e.g. the whole pre-treatment period versus the final
untreated period). This leads to some tradeoffs between efficiency and the strength of the
parallel trends assumption needed for identification, as highlighted in the comparison of BJS
and CS above. The best estimator to use will therefore depend on the context — partic-
ularly, on which group is the most sensible comparison, and how confident the researcher
is in parallel trends for all periods. Nevertheless, it is our practical experience that the
various heterogeneity-robust DiD estimators typically (although not always) produce similar
answers. The first-order consideration is therefore to use an approach that makes clear what
the target parameter is and which groups are being compared for identification. Thankfully,
there are now statistical packages that make implementing (and comparing) the results from
these estimators straightforward in practice (see Table 2).
We acknowledge that these new methods may initially appear complicated to researchers
accustomed to analyzing seemingly simple regression specifications such as (5) or (7). How-
ever, while traditional TWFE regressions are easy to specify, as discussed above they are
actually quite difficult tointerpret, since they make complicated and unintuitive comparisons
across groups. By contrast, the methods that we recommend have a simple interpretation
using a coherent comparison group. And while more complex to express in regression format,
they can be viewed as simple aggregations of comparisons of group means. We suspect that
21

--- PAGE 22 ---
once researchers gain experience using the newer heterogeneity-robust DiD methods, they
will not seem so scary after all!
4 Relaxing or allowing the parallel trends assumption to
be violated
A second strand of the literature has focused on the possibility that the canonical parallel
trends assumption may not hold exactly. Approaches to this problem include relaxing the
parallel trends assumption to hold only conditional on covariates, testing for pre-treatment
violations of the parallel trends assumption, and various tools for robust inference and sen-
sitivity analysis that explore the possibility that parallel trends may be violated in certain
ways.
4.1 Why might parallel trends be violated?
The canonical parallel trends assumption requires that the mean outcome for the treated
group would have evolved in parallel with the mean outcome for the untreated group if the
treatment had not occurred. As discussed in Section 2, this allows for confounding factors
that affect treatment status, but these must have a constant additive effect on the mean
outcome.
In practice, however, we will often be unsure of the validity of the parallel trends assump-
tion for several reasons. First, there will often be concern about time-varying confounding
factors. For example, Democratic-leaning states were more likely to adopt Medicaid expan-
sions but also might be subject to different time-varying macro-economic shocks. A second
concern relates to the potential sensitivity of the parallel trends assumption to the chosen
function form of the outcome. If parallel trends holds using the outcome measured in levels,
Y 0 , then it will generally not be the case that it holds for the outcomes measured in logs
i,t
p q
log Y 0 (or vice versa). Indeed, Roth and Sant’Anna (2022) show that parallel trends
i,t
p p qq
can hold for all monotonic transformations of the outcome g Y 0 essentially only if the
i,t
p p qq
population can be divided into two groups, where the first group is as good as randomly as-
signed between treatment and control, and the second group has the same potential outcome
distribution in both periods. Although there are some cases where these conditions may be
(approximately) met — the most prominent of which is random assignment of treatment —
they are likely not to hold in most settings where DiD is used, and thus parallel trends will
be sensitive to functional form. It will often not be obvious that parallel trends should hold
for the particular functional form chosen for our analysis — e.g. should we use insurance
22

--- PAGE 23 ---
rates, or log insurance rates? — and thus we may be skeptical of its validity.
4.2 Parallel trends conditional on covariates
Oneway toincrease thecredibility oftheparalleltrendsassumptionistorequire thatitholds
only conditional on covariates. Indeed, if we condition on a rich enough set of covariates
X , we may be willing to believe that treatment is nearly randomly assigned conditional on
i
X . Imposing only parallel trends conditional on X gives us an extra degree of robustness,
i i
since conditional random assignment can fail so long as the remaining unobservables have
a time-invariant additive effect on the outcome. In the Medicaid expansion example, for
instance, we may want to condition on a state’s partisan lean.
In the canonical model discussed in Section 2, the parallel trends assumption can be
naturally extended to incorporate covariates as follows.
Assumption 6 (Conditional Parallel Trends).
E Y i,2 0 Y i,1 0 D i 1,X i E Y i,2 0 Y i,1 0 D i 0,X i (almost surely) , (10)
r p q´ p q| “ s “ r p q´ p q| “ s
for X a pre-treatment vector of observable covariates.
i
For simplicity, we will focus first on the conditional parallel trends assumption in the canon-
ical two-period model, although several papers have also extended this idea to the case of
staggered treatment timing, as we will discuss towards the end of this subsection. We fur-
thermore focus our discussion on covariates that are measured prior to treatment and that
are time-invariant (although they may have a time-varying impact on the outcome); relevant
extensions to this are also discussed below.
In addition to the conditional parallel trends assumption, we will also impose an overlap
condition (a.k.a. positivity condition), which guarantees that for each treated unit with
covariates X , there are at least some untreated units in the population with the same
i
value of X . This overlap assumption is particularly important for using standard inference
i
procedures (Khan and Tamer, 2010).
Assumption 7 (Strong overlap). The conditional probability of belonging to the treatment
group, given observed characteristics, is uniformly bounded away from one, and the propor-
tion of treated units is bounded away from zero. That is, for some ǫ 0, P D 1 X
i i
ą p “ | q ă
1 ǫ, almost surely, and E D 0.
´ r s ą
Giventheconditionalparalleltrendsassumption,noanticipationassumption, andoverlap
23

--- PAGE 24 ---
condition, the ATT conditional on X x,
i
“
τ x E Y 1 Y 0 D 1,X x ,
2 i,2 i,2 i i
p q “ r p q´ p q| “ “ s
is identified for all x with P D 1 X x 0. In particular,
i i
p “ | “ q ą
τ 2 x E Y i,2 Y i,1 D i 1,X i x E Y i,2 Y i,1 D i 0,X i x . (11)
p q “ r ´ | “ “ s´ r ´ | “ “ s
ChangeforDi“1,Xi“x ChangeforDi“0,Xi“x
Note that equationlo(oo1o1oo)oooiosooaoonooaoolmogoooouoosootoooooo(o2oo)ooionn thleooocoaoonoooonooiocooaolooommoodooeoolo,ooeooxocooeopootoonit conditions
on X x. Intuitively, among the sub-population with X x, we have parallel trends,
i i
“ “
and so we can take the same steps as in Section 2 to infer the conditional ATT for that
sub-population. The unconditional ATT can then be identified by averaging τ 2 x over the
p q
distribution of X in the treated population. Using the law of iterated expectations, we have
i
τ E Y 1 Y 0 D 1 E E Y 1 Y 0 D 1,X D 1 .
2 i,2 i,2 i » i,2 i,2 i i i fi
“ r p q´ p q| “ s “ r p q´ p q| “ s| “
—
τ2pXiq
ffi
– fl
loooooooooooooooooomoooooooooooooooooon
When X is discrete and takes a small number of values — for example, if X is an
i i
indicator for whether someone has a college degree – then estimation is straightforward. We
can just run an unconditional DiD for each value of X , and then aggregate the estimates to
i
form an estimate for the overall ATT, using the delta method or bootstrap for the standard
errors. When X is either continuously distributed or discrete with a very large number of
i
support points, estimation becomes more complicated, because we will typically not have a
largeenoughsampletodoanunconditionalDiDwithineachpossiblevalueofX . Thankfully,
i
there are several available econometric approaches to semi-/non-parametrically estimate the
ATT even with continuous covariates. We first discuss the limitations of using TWFE
regressions in this setting, and then discuss several alternative approaches.
Standard linear regression. Given that the TWFE specification (3) yielded consistent
estimates oftheATTunderAssumptions 1-3inthecanonicalDiDmodel, itmaybetempting
to augment this specification with controls for a time-by-covariate interaction,
Y α φ 1 t 2 D β X 1 t 2 γ ε , (12)
i,t i t i i i,t
“ ` `p r “ s¨ q `p ¨ r “ sq `
for estimation under conditional parallel trends. Unfortunately, this augmented specification
need not yield consistent estimates of the ATT under conditional parallel trends without
24

--- PAGE 25 ---
additional homogeneity assumptions. The intuition is that equation (12) implicitly models
the conditional expectation function (CEF) of Y i,2 Y i,1 as depending on X i with a constant
´
slope of γ, regardless of i’s treatment status. If there are heterogeneous treatment effects
that depend onX — e.g., the ATT varies by ageof participants — the derivative of the CEF
i
with respect to X may depend on treatment status D as well. In these practically relevant
i i
setups, estimates of β can be biased for the ATT; see Meyer (1995) and Abadie (2005) for
additionaldiscussion. Fortunately, there are several semi-/non-parametricmethods available
that allow for consistent estimation of the ATT under conditional parallel trends under
weaker homogeneity assumptions.
Regression adjustment. An alternative approach to allow for covariate-specific trends in
DiDsettingsistheregressionadjustmentprocedureproposedbyHeckman, Ichimura and Todd
(1997) and Heckman, Ichimura, Smith and Todd (1998). Their main idea exploits the fact
that under conditional parallel trends, strong overlap, and no anticipation we can write the
ATT as
τ E E Y Y D 1,X E Y Y D 0,X D 1 ,
2 i,2 i,1 i i i,2 i,1 i i i
“ r r ´ | “ s´ r ´ | “ s| “ s
E Y Y D 1 E E Y Y D 0,X D 1 ,
i,2 i,1 i i,2 i,1 i i i
“ r ´ | “ s´ r r ´ | “ s| “ s
where the second equality follows from the law of iterated expectations. Thus, to estimate
the ATT under conditional parallel trends, one simply needs to estimate the conditional
expectation of the outcome among untreated units, and then average these “predictions”
using the empirical distribution of X i among treated units. That is, we estimate τ 2 with
1
τ 2 Y i,2 Y i,1 E Y i,2 Y i,1 D i 0,X i , (13)
“ N 1 p ´ q´ r ´ | “ s
i:D ÿi“1
´ ¯
p
p
where E Y i,2 Y i,1 D i 0,X i is the estimated conditional expectation function fitted on
r ´ | “ s
the control units (but evaluated at X for a treated unit). We note that if one uses a linear
i
p
model for E Y i,2 Y i,1 D i 0,X i , then this would be similar to a modification of (12) that
r ´ | “ s
interacts X with both treatment group and time dummies, although the two are not quite
i
p
identical because the outcome regression approach re-weights using the distribution of X
i
among units with D 1. The researcher need not restrict themselves to linear models
i
“
for the CEF, however, and can use more flexible semi-/non-parametric methods instead.
One popular approach in empirical practice is to match each treated unit to a “nearest
neighbor” untreated unit with similar (or identical) covariate values, and then estimate
E Y i,2 Y i,1 D i 0,X i using Y lpiq2 Y lpiq1, where l i is the untreated unit matched to i, in
r ´ | “ s ´ p q
p
25

--- PAGE 26 ---
which case τ 2 reduces to the simple DiD estimator between treated units and the matched
comparison group.
p
The outcome regression approach will generally be consistent for the ATT when the out-
come model used to estimate E Y i,2 Y i,1 D i 0,X i is correctly specified. Inference can
r ´ | “ s
be done using the delta-method for parametric models, and there are also several methods
p
available for semi-/non-parametric models (under some additional regularity conditions),
including the bootstrap, as described in Heckman et al. (1998). Inference is more compli-
cated, however, when one models the outcome evolution of untreated units using a nearest-
neighbor approach with a fixed number of matches: the resulting estimator is no longer
asymptotically linear and thus standard bootstrap procedures are not asymptotically valid
(e.g.,Abadie and Imbens,2006,2008,2011,2012). Ignoringthematching stepcanalso cause
problems, and one therefore needs to use inference procedures that accommodate matching
as described in the aforementioned papers.15
Inverse probability weighting An alternative to modeling the conditional expectation
functionistoinsteadmodelthepropensity score, i.e. theconditionalprobabilityofbelonging
to the treated group given covariates, p X P D 1 X . Indeed, as shown by Abadie
i i i
p q “ p “ | q
(2005), under Assumptions 2, 6 and 7, the ATT is identified using the following inverse
probability weighting (IPW) formula:
1 D p X
E D i ´ p 1 ´ p i q X p i q p Y i,2 ´ Y i,1 q
i
τ 2 “ „ˆ ´ E p D q ˙ . (14)
i
r s
As in the regression adjustment approach, researchers can use the “plug-in principle”
to estimate the ATT by pluging in an estimate of the propensity score to the equation
above. The propensity score model can be estimated using parametric models or semi-/non-
parametric models (under suitable regularity conditions). The IPW approach will generally
be consistent if the model for the propensity scores is correctly specified. Inference can be
conducted using standard tools; see, e.g., Abadie (2005).
Doubly-robust estimators TheoutcomeregressionandIPWapproachesdescribedabove
can also be combined to form “doubly-robust” (DR) methods that are valid if either the out-
comemodelorthepropensityscoremodeliscorrectlyspecified. Specifically, Sant’Anna and Zhao
15Although these nearest-neighbor procedures have been formally justified for cross-sectional data, they
are easily adjustable to the canonical 2x2 DiD setup with balanced panel data. We are not aware of formal
extensionsthatallowsforunbalancedpaneldata,repeatedcross-sectionaldata,ormoregeneralDiDdesigns.
Abadie and Spiess (2022)showthat, insomecases,clusteringatthe matchlevelis sufficientwhenmatching
is done without replacement.
26

--- PAGE 27 ---
(2020) show that under Assumptions 2, 6 and 7, the ATT is identified as:
1 D p X
i i
p ´ q p q
D 1 p X
τ 2 “ E »¨ E D i ´ 1 ´ D p p i q X ˛ p Y i,2 ´ Y i,1 ´ E r Y i,2 ´ Y i,1 | D i “ 0,X i sq fi(.15)
i E i i
r s p ´ q p q
—˚ 1 p X ‹ ffi
—˚ „ ´ p i q ‹ ffi
–˝ ‚ fl
Asbefore, onecanthenestimatetheATT byplugging inestimates ofboththepropensity
score and the CEF. The outcome equation and the propensity score can be modeled with
either parametric or semi-/non-parametric methods, and DR methods will generally be con-
sistent if either of these models is correctly specified. In addition, Chang (2020) shows that
data-adaptive/machine-learning methods can also be used with DR methods. Standard in-
ference tools can be used as well; see, e.g., Sant’Anna and Zhao (2020). Finally, under some
regularity conditions, the DR estimator achieves the semi-parametric efficiency bound when
both the outcome and propensity score models are correctly specified (Sant’Anna and Zhao,
2020).
Extensions to staggered treatment timing: Although the discussion above focused on
DiD setups with two groups and two periods, these different procedures have been extended
to staggered DiD setups when treatments are binary and non-reversible. More precisely,
Callaway and Sant’Anna (2021) extend the regression adjustment, IPW and DR procedures
above to estimate the family of ATT g,t ’s discussed in Section 3.3. They then aggre-
p q
gate these estimators to form different treatment effect summary measures. Wooldridge
(2021) proposes an alternative regression adjustment procedure that is suitable for stag-
gered setups. His proposed estimator differs from the Callaway and Sant’Anna (2021) re-
gression adjustment estimator as he exploits additional information from pre-treatment
periods, which, in turn, can lead to improvements in precision. On the other hand, if
these additional assumptions are violated, Wooldridge (2021)’s estimator may be more bi-
ased than Callaway and Sant’Anna (2021)’s. de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfœuille (2020);
de Chaisemartin and D’Haultfoeuille (2022) and Borusyak et al. (2021) consider estimators
which include covariates in a linear manner.
Caveats. Throughout, we assume that the covariates X were measured prior to the intro-
i
duction of the intervention and are, therefore, unaffected by it. If X can in fact be affected
i
by treatment, then conditioning on it induces a “bad control” problem that can induce bias;
see Zeldow and Hatfield (2021) for additional discussion. Similar issues arise if one condi-
tions on time-varying covariates X that can be affected by the treatment. If one is willing
i,t
27

--- PAGE 28 ---
to assume that a certain time-varying covariate W is not affected by the treatment, then
i,t
in principle the entire time-path of the covariate W i W i,1 ,...,W i,T 1 can be included in
“ p q
the conditioning variable X , and thus exogenous time-varying covariates can be incorpo-
i
ratedsimilarlytoanypre-treatment covariate. SeeCaetano, Callaway, Payne and Rodrigues
(2022) for additional discussion of time-varying covariates.
Another important question relates to whether researchers should condition on pre-
treatment outcomes. Proponents of including pre-treatment outcomes argue that controlling
for lagged outcomes can reduce bias from unobserved confounders (Ryan, 2018). It is worth
noting when lagged outcomes are included in X , the conditional parallel trends assumption
i
actually reduces to a conditional mean independence assumption for the untreated potential
outcome, since the Y i,1 0 terms on both sides of (10) cancel out, and thus we are left with
p q
E Y i,2 0 D i 1,X i E Y i,2 0 D i 0,X i (almost surely) .
r p q| “ s “ r p q| “ s
Including thelaggedoutcomeintheconditioning variablethus makes sense ifoneis confident
in the conditional unconfoundedness assumption: i.e., if treatment is as good as randomly
assigned conditional on the lagged outcome and other elements of X . This may be sensible
i
insettings where treatment takeup decisions aremadeonthebasis oflaggedoutcomes. How-
ever, it is also important to note that conditioning on lagged outcomes need not necessarily
reduce bias, andcaninfact exacerbate it incertain contexts. Forexample, Daw and Hatfield
(2018) show that when the treated and comparison groups have different outcome distribu-
tions but the same trends, matching the treated and control groups on lagged outcomes
selects control units with a particularly large “shock” in the pre-treatment period. This can
then induce bias owing to a mean-reversion effect, when in fact not conditioning on lagged
outcomes would have produced parallel trends. Thus, whether one should include lagged
outcomes or not depends on whether the researcher prefers the non-nested assumptions of
conditional unconfoundedness (given the lagged outcome) versus parallel trends. See, also
Chabé-Ferret (2015), Angrist and Pischke (2009, Chapter 5.4), and Ding and Li (2019) for
related discussion.
4.3 Testing for pre-existing trends
Although conditioning on pre-existing covariates can help increase the plausibility of the
parallel trends assumption, researchers typically still worry that there remain unobserved
time-varying confounders. An appealing feature of the DiD design is that it allows for a
natural plausibility check on the identifying assumptions: did outcomes for the treated and
comparison groups (possibly conditional on covariates) move in parallel prior to the time
28

--- PAGE 29 ---
of treatment? It has therefore become common practice to check, both visually and using
statistical tests, whether there exist pre-existing differences in trends (“pre-trends”) as a test
of the plausibility of the parallel trends assumption.
To fix ideas, consider a simple extension of the canonical non-staggered DiD model in
Section 2 in which we observe outcomes for an additional period t 0 during which no units
“
were treated. (These ideas will extend to the case of staggered treatment or conditional
parallel trends). By the no-anticipation assumption, Y Y 0 for all units in periods
i,t i,t
“ p q
t 0 and t 1. We can thus check whether the analog to the parallel trends assumption
“ “
held between periods 0 and 1 — that is, is
E Y Y D 1 E Y Y D 0 0?
i,1 i,0 i i,1 i,0 i
r ´ | “ s ´ r ´ | “ s “
Pre-treatment changeforDi“1 Pre-treatment changeforDi“0
loooooooooooomoooooooooooon loooooooooooomoooooooooooon
For example, did average insurance rates evolve in parallel for expansion and non-expansion
states before either of them expanded Medicaid? In the non-staggered setting, this hypoth-
esis can be conveniently tested using a TWFE specification that includes leads and lags of
treatment,
Y α φ 1 R r β ǫ , (16)
i,t i t i,t r i,t
“ ` ` r “ s `
r‰0
ÿ
where the coefficient on the lead of treatment β ´1 is given by
1 1
p
β Y Y Y Y .
´1 i,0 i,1 i,0 i,1
“ N 1 ´ ´ N 0 ´
i:D ÿi“1 i:D ÿi“0
p
Testingforpre-treatmenttrendsthusisequivalenttotestingthenullhypothesisthatβ
´1
0.
“
This approach is convenient to implement and extends easily to the case with additional
pre-treatment periods and non-staggered treatment adoption. When there are multiple pre-
treatment periods, it is common to plot the β in what is called as an “event-study” plot.
r
If all of the pre-treatment coefficients (i.e., β for r 0 are insignificant, this is usually
r
p ă q
interpreted as a sign in favor of the validity of the design, since we cannot reject the null
p
that parallel trends was satisfied in the pre-treatment period.
This pre-testing approach extends easily to settings with staggered adoption and/or con-
ditional parallel trends assumptions. For example, the Callaway and Sant’Anna (2021) es-
timator can be used to construct “placebo” estimates of ATTw for l 0, i.e. the ATT
l ă
w
l periods before treatment. The estimates ATT can be plotted for different values of l
l
(corresponding to different lengths of time before/after treatment) to form an event-study
z
plot analogous to that for the non-staggered case. This illustrates that the idea of testing
29

--- PAGE 30 ---
for pre-trends extends easily to the settings with staggered treatment adoption or condi-
tional parallel trends, since the Callaway and Sant’Anna (2021) can be applied for both of
these settings. These results are by no means specific to the Callaway and Sant’Anna (2021)
estimator, though, and event-study plots can be created in a similar fashion using other
estimators for either staggered or conditional DiD settings. We caution, however, against
using dynamic TWFE specifications like (16) in settings with staggered adoption, since as
noted by Sun and Abraham (2021), the coefficients β may be contaminated by treatment
r
effects at relative time r1 0, so with heterogeneous treatment effects the pre-trends test
ą
may reject even if parallel trends holds in the pre-treatment period (or vice versa).
4.4 Issues with testing for pre-trends
Although tests of pre-existing trends are a natural and intuitive plausibility check of the
parallel trends assumption, recent research has highlighted that they also have several lim-
itations. First, even if pre-trends are exactly parallel, this need not guarantee that the
post-treatment parallel trends assumption is satisfied. Kahn-Lang and Lang (2020) give an
intuitive example: the average height of boys and girls evolves in parallel until about age 13
and then diverges, but we should not conclude from this that there is a causal effect of bar
mitzvahs (which occur for boys at age 13) on children’s height!
A second issue is that even if there are pre-existing differences in trends, the tests de-
scribedabovemayfailtorejectowingtolowpower(Bilinski and Hatfield,2018;Freyaldenhoven, Hansen and Shapiro,
2019; Kahn-Lang and Lang, 2020; Roth, 2022). That is, even if there is a pre-existing trend,
it may not be significant in the data if our pre-treatment estimates are imprecise.
To develop some intuition for why power may be low, suppose that there is no true
treatment effect but there is a pre-existing linear difference in trends between the treatment
andcomparisongroups. Theninthesimple examplefromabove, thepre-treatment andpost-
treatment event-study coefficients will have the same magnitude, β ´1 β 1 . If the two
| | “ | |
estimated coefficients β ´1 and β 1 also have the same sampling variance, then by symmetry
ˆ
the probability that the pre-treatment coefficient β ´1 is significant will be the same as the
p p ˆ
probability that the post-treatment coefficient β 1 is significant. But this means that a linear
violation of parallel trends that would be detected only half the time by a pre-trends test will
alsoleadustospuriously findasignificant treatment effect halfthetime16 —thatis, 10times
more often than we expect to find a spurious effect using a nominal 95% confidence interval!
Another intuition for this phenomenon, given by Bilinski and Hatfield (2018), is that pre-
ˆ
16This is the unconditional probability that β1 is significant (not conditioning on the result of the pre-
ˆ ˆ
test). However,if β1 and β ´1 are independent, then this is also the probability of finding a significant effect
conditional on passing the pre-test.
30

--- PAGE 31 ---
trends tests reverse the traditional roles of type I and type II error: they set the assumption
of parallel trends (or no placebo pre-intervention effect) as the null hypothesis and only
“reject” the assumption if there is strong evidence against it. This controls the probability
of finding a violation when parallel trends holds at 5% (or another chosen α-level), but the
probability of failing to identify a violation can be much higher, corresponding to type II
error of the test.
In addition to being concerning from a theoretical point of view, the possibility of low
power appears to be relevant in practice: in simulations calibrated to papers published in
three leading economics journals, Roth (2022) found that linear violations of parallel trends
that conventional tests would detect only 50% of the time often produce biases as large as
(or larger than) the estimated treatment effect.
A third issue with pre-trends testing is that conditioning the analysis on “passing” a pre-
trends test induces a selection bias known as pre-test bias (Roth, 2022). Intuitively, if there
is a pre-existing difference in trends in population, the draws from the DGP in which we fail
to detect a significant pre-trend are a selected sample from the true DGP. Roth (2022) shows
that in many cases, this additional selection bias can exacerbate the bias from a violation of
parallel trends.
A final issue with the current practice of pre-trends testing relates to what happens if
we do detect a significant pre-trend. In this case, the pre-trends test suggests that parallel
trendsislikelynottoholdexactly,butresearchersmaystillwishtolearnsomethingaboutthe
treatment effect of interest. Indeed, it seems likely that with enough precision, we will nearly
always reject that the parallel trends assumption holds exactly in the pre-treatment period.
Nevertheless, we may still wish to learn something about the treatment effect, especially if
the violation of parallel trends is “small” in magnitude. However, the conventional approach
does not make clear how to proceed in this case.
4.4.1 Improved diagnostic tools
Afewpapershaveproposedalternativetoolsfordetectingpre-treatmentviolationsofparallel
trends thattakeinto account someofthelimitationsdiscussed above. Roth(2022)developed
tools to conduct power analyses and calculate the likely distortions from pre-testing under
researcher-hypothesized violations of parallel trends. These tools allow the researcher to
assess whether the limitations described above are likely to be severe for potential violations
of parallel trends deemed economically relevant.
Bilinski and Hatfield (2018) and Dette and Schumann (2020) propose “non-inferiority”
approaches to pre-testing that help address the issue of low power by reversing the roles of
the null and alternative hypotheses. That is, rather than test the null that pre-treatment
31

--- PAGE 32 ---
trends are zero, they test the null that the pre-treatment trend is large, and reject only
if the data provides strong evidence that the pre-treatment trend is small. For example,
Dette and Schumann (2020) consider null hypotheses of the form H 0 : max ră0 β r c,
| | ě
where β are the (population) pre-treatment coefficients from regression (16). This ensures
r
that the test “detects” a pre-trend with probability at least 1 α when in fact the pre-trend
´
is large (i.e. has magnitude at least c).
These non-inferiority approaches are an improvement over standard pre-testing methods,
since they guarantee by design that the pre-test is powered against large pre-treatment
violations of parallel trends. However, using these approaches does not provide any formal
guarantees that ensure the validity of confidence intervals for the treatment effect, the main
object of interest. They also do not avoid statistical issues related to pre-testing (Roth,
2022), and do not provide clear guidance on what to do when the test fails to reject the null
ofalargepre-trend. Thishasmotivatedmoreformalrobust inferenceandsensitivity analysis
approaches that consider inference on the ATT when parallel trends may be violated, which
we discuss next.
4.5 Robust inference and sensitivity analysis
Bounds using pre-trends. Rambachan and Roth (2022b) propose an approach for ro-
bust inference and sensitivity analysis when parallel trends may be violated, building on
earlier work by Manski and Pepper (2018). Their approach attempts to formalize the in-
tuition motivating pre-trends testing: that the counterfactual post-treatment trends cannot
be “too different” from the pre-trends. To fix ideas, consider the non-staggered treatment
adoption setting described in Section 4.4. Denote by δ 1 the violation of parallel trends in
the first post-treatment period:
δ E Y 0 Y 0 D 1 E Y 0 Y 0 D 0 .
1 i,2 i,1 i i,2 i,1 i
“ r p q´ p q| “ s´ r p q´ p q| “ s
This, for example, could be the counterfactual difference in trends in insurance coverage
between Medicaid expansion and non-expansion states if the expansions had not occurred.
The bias δ 1 is unfortunately not directly identified, since we do not observe the untreated po-
tential outcomes, Y i,2 0 , for the treated group. However, by the no anticipation assumption,
p q
we can identify the pre-treatment analog to δ 1,
δ E Y 0 Y 0 D 1 E Y 0 Y 0 D 0 ,
´1 i,0 i,1 i i,0 i,1 i
“ r p q´ p q| “ s´ r p q´ p q| “ s
which looks at pre-treatment differences in trends between the groups, with δ ´1 E β ´1
“
” ı
p
32

--- PAGE 33 ---
from the event study regression (16). For example, δ ´1 corresponds to the pre-treatment
difference in trends between expansion and non-expansion states.
Rambachan and Roth (2022b) then consider robust inference under assumptions that
restrict the possible values of δ 1 given the value of δ ´1 — or more generally, given δ ´1 ,...,δ ´K
if there are K pre-treatment coefficients. For example, one type of restriction they consider
states that the magnitude of the post-treatment violation of parallel trends can be no larger
than a constant M ¯ times the maximal pre-treatment violation, i.e. δ 1 M ¯ max ră0 δ r .
| | ď | |
If M ¯ 1, for example, then this would impose that post-treatment violations of parallel
“
trends are no larger than the largest pre-treatment violation. They also consider restrictions
that bound the extent that δ 1 can deviate from a linear extrapolation of the pre-treatment
differences in trends. Rambachan and Roth (2022b) use tools from the partial identification
and sensitivity analysis literature (Armstrong and Kolesár, 2018; Andrews, Roth and Pakes,
2022) to construct confidence sets for the ATT that are uniformly valid under the imposed
restrictions. These confidence sets take into account the fact that we do not observe the true
pre-treatment difference in trends δ ´1, only an estimate β ´1. In contrast to conventional
pre-trends tests, the Rambachan and Roth (2022b) confidence sets thus tend to be larger
p
when there is more uncertainty about the pre-treatment difference in trends (i.e. when the
standard error on δ ´1 is large).
This approach enables a natural form of sensitivity analysis. For example, a researcher
p
might report that the conclusion of a positive treatment effect is robust up to the value
M ¯ 2. This indicates that to invalidate the conclusion of a positive effect, we would need
“
to allow for a post-treatment violation of parallel trends two times larger than the maximal
pre-treatment violation. For example, we could potentially say that Medicaid expansion
has a significant effect on insurance rates unless we’re willing to allow for post-expansion
differences in trends that were up to twice as large as the largest difference in trends prior
to the expansion. Doing so makes precise exactly what needs to be assumed about possible
violations of parallel trends to reach a particular conclusion.
It is worth highlighting that although we’ve described these tools in the context of non-
staggered treatment timing and an unconditional parallel trends assumption, they extend
easily to the case of staggered treatment timing and conditional parallel trends as well.
Indeed, under mild regularity conditions, these tools can be used anytime the researcher
has a treatment effect estimate β and a placebo estimate β , so long as she is willing
post pre
to bound the possible bias of β given the expected value of β . For example, in the
post pre
p p
staggered setting, β could be an estimate of ATTw for l 0 using one of the estimators
post p l ą p
described in Section 3.3, and β could be placebo estimates of ATTw ,...,ATTw . See
pre ´1 ´k
p
https://github.com/pedrohcgs/CS_RR for examples on how these sensitivity analyses can
p
33

--- PAGE 34 ---
be combined with the Callaway and Sant’Anna (2021) estimator in R.
Bounds using bracketing. Ye, Keele, Hasegawa and Small (2021) consider an alterna-
tive partial identification approach where there are two control groups whose trends are as-
sumed to “bracket” that of the treatment group. Consider the canonical model from Section
2, and suppose the untreated units can be divided into two control groups, denoted C a
i
“
and C b. For ease of notation, let C trt denote the treated group, i.e. units with
i i
“ “
D i 1. Let ∆ c E Y i,2 0 Y i,1 0 C i c . Instead of the parallel trends assumption,
“ p q “ r p q´ p q| “ s
Ye et al. (2021) impose that
min ∆ a ,∆ b ∆ trt max ∆ a ,∆ b , (17)
t p q p qu ď p q ď t p q p qu
so that the trend in Y 0 for the treated group is bounded above and below (“bracketed”)
p q
by the minimum and maximum trend in groups a and b. An intuitive example where we
may have such bracketing is if each of the groups corresponds with a set of industries, and
one of the control groups (say group a) is more cyclical than the treated group while the
other (say group b) is less cyclical. If the economy was improving between periods t 1 and
“
t 2, then we would expect group a to have the largest change in the outcome and group b
“
to have the smallest change; whereas if the economy was getting worse, we would expect the
opposite. Under equation (17) and the no anticipation assumption, the ATT is bounded,
E Y Y D 1 max ∆ a ,∆ b τ E Y Y D 1 min ∆ a ,∆ b .
i,2 i,1 i 2 i,2 i,1 i
r ´ | “ s´ t p q p qu ď ď r ´ | “ s´ t p q p qu
This reflects that if we knew the true counterfactual trend for the treated group we could
learn the ATT exactly, and therefore that bounding this trend means we can obtain bounds
on the ATT. Ye et al. (2021) further show how one can construct confidence intervals for the
ATT, and extend this logic to settings with multiple periods (but non-staggered treatment
timing). See, also, Hasegawa, Webster and Small (2019) for a related, earlier approach.
4.5.1 Other approaches.
Keele, Small, Hsu and Fogarty (2019) propose a sensitivity analysis in the canonical two-
periodDiD modelthat summarizes the strength of confounding factorsthat would beneeded
to induce a particular bias. Freyaldenhoven, Hansen, Pérez and Shapiro (2021) propose a vi-
sual sensitivity analysis in which one plots the “smoothest” trend though an event-study plot
that could rationalize the data under the null of no effect. Finally, Freyaldenhoven et al.
(2019) propose a GMM-based estimation strategy that allows for parallel trends to be vi-
34

--- PAGE 35 ---
olated when there exists a covariate assumed to be affected by the same confounds as the
outcome but not by the treatment itself.
4.6 Recommendations
We suspect that in most practical applications of DiD, researchers will not be confident
ex ante that the parallel trends assumption holds exactly, owing to concerns about time-
varying confounds and sensitivity to functional form. The methods discussed in this setting
for relaxing the parallel trends assumption and/or assessing sensitivity to violations of the
parallel trends assumption will therefore be highly relevant in most contexts where DiD is
applied.
A natural starting point for these robustness checks is to consider whether the results
change meaningfully when imposing parallel trends only conditional on covariates. Among
the different estimation procedures we discussed, we view doubly-robust procedures as a
natural default, since they are valid if either the outcome model or propensity score is
well-specified and have desirable efficiency properties. A potential exception to this recom-
mendation arises in settings with limited overlap, i.e., when the estimated propensity score
is close to 0 or 1, in which case regression adjustment estimators may be preferred.
Whether one includes covariatesinto the DiD analysis or not, we encourage researchers to
continue to plot “event-study plots” that allow for a visual evaluation of pre-existing trends.
These plots convey useful information for the reader to assess whether there appears to have
been a break in the outcome for the treatment group around the time of treatment. In
contexts with a common treatment date, such plots can be created using TWFE specifi-
cations like (16); in contexts with staggered timing, we recommend plotting estimates of
ATTw for different values of l using one of the estimators for the staggered setting described
l
in Section 3.3 to avoid negative weighting issues with TWFE. See Section 4.3 for addi-
tional discussion. We also refer the reader to Freyaldenhoven et al. (2021) regarding best-
practices for creating such plots, such as displaying simultaneous (rather than pointwise)
confidence bands for the path of the event-study coefficients (Olea and Plagborg-Møller,
2019; Callaway and Sant’Anna, 2021).
Whileevent-studyplotsplayanimportantroleinevaluatingtheplausibilityoftheparallel
trends assumption, we think it is important to appreciate that tests of pre-trends may be
underpowered to detect relevant violations of paralleltrends, asdiscussed inSection 4.4. The
lack of a significant pre-trend does not necessarily imply the validity of the parallel trends
assumption. At minimum, we recommend that researchers assess the power of pre-trends
tests against economically relevant violations of parallel trends, as described in Section 4.4.1.
35

--- PAGE 36 ---
We also think it should become standard practice for researchers to formally assess the
extent to which their conclusions are sensitive to violations of parallel trends. A natural
¯
statistic to report in many contexts is the “breakdown” value of M using the sensitivity
analysis in Rambachan and Roth (2022b) — i.e. how big would the post-treatment violation
of parallel trends have to be relative to the largest pre-treatment violation to invalidate
a particular conclusion? We encourage researchers to routinely report the results of the
sensitivity analyses described in Section 4.5 alongside their event-study plots.
We also encourage researchers to accompany the formalsensitivity toolswith a discussion
of possible violations of parallel trends informed by context-specific knowledge. The parallel
trends assumption is much more plausible in settings where we expect the trends for the two
groups to be similar ex-ante (before seeing the pre-trends). Whenever possible, researchers
should therefore provide a justification for why we might expect the two groups to have
similar trends. It is also useful to provide context-specific knowledge about the types of
confounds that might potentially lead to violations of the parallel trends assumption —
what time-varying factorsmayhave differentially affectedtheoutcome forthetreatedgroup?
Such discussion can often be very useful for interpreting the results of the formal sensitivity
analyses described in Section 4.5. For example, suppose that a particular conclusion is
robust to allowing for violations of parallel trends twice as large the maximum in the pre-
treatment period. In contexts where other factors were quite stable around the time of the
treatment, this might be interpreted as a very robust finding; on the other hand, if the
treatment occurred at the beginning of a recession much larger than anything seen in the
pre-treatment period, then a violation of parallel trends of that magnitude may indeed be
plausible, so that the results are less robust than we might like. Thus, economic knowledge
will be very important in understanding the robustness of a particular result. In our view,
the most scientific approach to dealing with possible violations of parallel trends therefore
involves a combination of state-of-the-art econometric tools and context-specific knowledge
about the types of plausible confounding factors.
5 Relaxing sampling assumptions
We now discuss a third strand of the DiD literature, which considers inference under devi-
ations from the canonical assumption that we have sampled a large number of independent
clusters from an infinite super-population.
36

--- PAGE 37 ---
5.1 Inference procedures with few clusters
As described in Section 2, standard DiD inference procedures rely on researchers having
access to data on a large number of treated and untreated clusters. Confidence intervals are
then based on the central limit theorem, which states that with independently-sampled clus-
ters, the DiD estimator has an asymptotically normal distribution as the number of treated
and untreated clusters grows large. In many practical DiD settings, however, the number of
independent clusters (and, in particular, treated clusters) may be small, so that the central
limit theorem based on a growing number of clusters may provide a poor approximation.
For example, many DiD applications using state-level policy changes may only have a hand-
ful of treated states. The central limit theorem may provide a poor approximation with
few clusters, even if the number of units within each cluster is large. This is because the
standard sampling-based view of clustering allows for arbitrary correlations of the outcome
within each cluster, and thus there may be common components at the cluster level (a.k.a.
cluster-level “shocks”) that do not wash out when averaging over many units within the same
cluster. Since we only observe a few observations of the cluster-specific shocks, the average
of these shocks will generally not be approximately normally distributed.
Model-based approaches. Several papers have made progress on the difficult problem
of conducting inference with a small number of clusters by modeling the dependence within
clusters. These papers typically place some restrictions on the common cluster-level shocks,
although the exact restrictions differ across papers. The starting point for these papers is
typically a structural equation of the form
Y α φ D β ν ǫ , (18)
ijt j t jt jt ijt
“ ` ` `p ` q
where Y is the (realized) outcome of unit i in cluster j at time t, α and φ are cluster
ijt j t
and time fixed effects, D is an indicator for whether cluster j is treated in period t, ν is a
jt jt
common cluster-by-time error term, and ǫ is an idiosyncratic unit-level error term. Here,
ijt
the “cluster-level” error term, ν , induces correlation among units within the same cluster.
jt
It is often assumed that ǫ are iid mean-zero across i and j (and sometimes t); see, e.g.,
ijt
Donald and Lang (2007), Conley and Taber (2011), and Ferman and Pinto (2019). Letting
Y
n´1
Y be the average outcome among units in cluster j, where n is the
jt
“
j i:jpiq“j ijt j
number of units in cluster j, we can take averages to obtain
ř
Y α φ D β η , (19)
jt j t jt jt
“ ` ` `
37

--- PAGE 38 ---
where η ν
n´1 nj
ǫ . Assuming the canonical set-up with two periods where no
jt
“
jt
`
j i“1 ijt
clusters are treated in period t 1 and some clusters are treated in period t 2, the
ř
“ “
canonical DiD estimator at the cluster level is equivalent to the estimated OLS coefficient β
from (19), and is given by
p
1 1
β β ∆η ∆η
j j
“ ` J 1 ´ J 0
j:D ÿj“1 j:D ÿj“0
p 1 nj 1 nj
β ∆ν n´1 ∆ǫ ∆ν n´1 ∆ǫ , (20)
“ ` J 1 j:D ÿj“1˜ j ` j i
ÿ
“1 ij ¸ ´ J 0 j:D ÿj“0˜ j ` j i
ÿ
“1 ij ¸
where J d corresponds with the number of clusters with treatment d, and ∆η j η j2 η j1
“ ´
(and likewise for the other variables). The equation in the previous display highlights the
challenge in this setup: with few clusters, the averages of the cluster level shocks ∆ν among
j
treated and untreated clusters will tend not to be approximately normally distributed, and
their variance may be difficult to estimate.
It is worth highlighting that the model described above starts from the structural equa-
tion (18) rather than a model where the primitives are potential outcomes as in Section 2.
We think that connecting the assumptions on the errors in the structural model (18) to re-
strictions on the potential outcomes is an interesting open topic for future work. Although a
general treatment is beyond the scope of this paper, in Appendix A we show that the errors
in the structural model (18) map to primitives based on potential outcomes in the canonical
model from Section 2. For the remainder of the sub-section, however, we focus primarily
on the restrictions placed on ν and ǫ directly — rather than the implications of these
jt ijt
assumptions for the potential outcomes — since this simplifies exposition and matches how
these assumptions are stated in the literature.
Donald and Lang (2007) made an important early contribution to the literature on in-
ference with few clusters. Their approach assumes that the cluster level-shocks ν are
jt
mean-zero Gaussian, homoskedastic with respect to cluster and treatment status, and inde-
pendent of other unit-and-time specific shocks. They also assume the number of units per
cluster is large (n for all j). They then show that one can obtain valid inference by
j
Ñ 8
using critical values from a t-distribution with J 2 degrees of freedom, where J is the total
´
number of clusters. A nice feature of this approach is that it allows for valid inference when
both the number of treated and untreated clusters is small. The disadvantage is the strong
parametric assumption of homoskedastic Gaussian errors, which will often be hard to justify
in practice.
Conley and Taber (2011) introduce an alternative approach for inference that is able to
38

--- PAGE 39 ---
relax the strong assumption of Gaussian errors in settings where there are many control clus-
ters (J 0 large) but few treated clusters (J 1 small). This may be reasonable if the author has
data from, say, 3 treated states and 47 untreated states. The key idea in Conley and Taber
(2011) is that if we assume that the errors in treated states come from the same distribution
as in control states, then we can learn the distribution of errors from the large number of
control states and use that to construct standard errors. A key advantage of this approach
is that the distribution of errors is not assumed to be Gaussian, but rather is learned from
the data. Nevertheless, the assumption that all treated groups have the same distribution of
errors is still strong, and will often be violated if either there is heterogeneity in treatment ef-
fects or in cluster sizes. Ferman and Pinto (2019) extend the approach of Conley and Taber
(2011) to allow for heteroskedasticity caused by heterogeneity in group sizes or other observ-
able characteristics, but must still restrict heterogeneity based on unobserved characteristics
(e.g. unobserved treatment effect heterogeneity).
Hagemann (2020) provides an alternative permutation-based approach that avoids the
need to directly estimate the heteroskedasticity. The key insight of Hagemann (2020) is
that if we place a bound on the maximal relative heterogeneity across clusters, then we
can bound the probability of type I error from a permutation approach. He also shows
how one can use this measure of relative heterogeneity to do sensitivity analysis. Like the
other proposals above, though, Hagemann (2020)’s approach must also place some strong
restrictions on certain types of heterogeneity. In particular, his approach essentially requires
that, as cluster size grows large, any single untreated cluster could be used to infer the
counterfactual trend for the treated group, and thus his approach rules out cluster-specific
heterogeneity in trends in untreated potential outcomes.
Another popular solution with few clusters is the cluster wild bootstrap. In an influential
paper, Cameron, Gelbach and Miller (2008) presented simulation evidence that the cluster
wild bootstrapprocedurecan workwell insettings with asfewasfive clusters. Morerecently,
however, Canay, Santos and Shaikh (2021) provided a formal analysis about the conditions
under which the cluster wild bootstrap is asymptotically valid in settings with a few large
clusters. Importantly, Canay et al. (2021) show that the reliability of these bootstrap proce-
dures depends on imposing certain homogeneity conditions on treatment effects, as well as
the type of bootstrap weights one uses and the estimation method adopted (e.g., restricted
vs. unrestricted OLS). These restrictions are commonly violated when one uses TWFE re-
gressions with cluster-specific and time fixed effects like (19) or when treatment effects are
allowed to be heterogeneous across clusters — see Examples 2 and 3 in Canay et al. (2021).
Simulations have likewise shown that the cluster wild bootstrap may perform poorly in DiD
settings with a small number of treated clusters (MacKinnon and Webb, 2018). Thus, while
39

--- PAGE 40 ---
the wild bootstrap may perform well in certain scenarios with a small number of clusters, it
too requires strong homogeneity assumptions.
Finally, in settings with a large number of time periods, it may be feasible to conduct re-
liable inference with less stringent homogeneity assumptions about treatment effects. For in-
stance, Canay, Romano and Shaikh(2017),Ibragimov and Müller(2016),Hagemann(2021),
andChernozhukov, Wüthrich and Zhu(2021)respectively proposepermutation-based, t-test
based, adjustedpermutation-based, andconformalinference-based proceduresthatallowone
to relax distributional assumptions about common shocks and accommodate richer forms of
heterogeneity. The key restriction is that one is comfortable limiting the time-series depen-
dence of the cluster-specific-shocks, and strengthening the parallel trends assumption to hold
in many pre- and post-treatment time periods. These methods have been shown to be valid
under asymptotics where the number of periods grows large. When in fact the number of
time periods is small, as frequently occurs in DiD applications, one can still use some of
these methods, but the underlying assumptions are stronger — see, e.g., Remark 4.5 and
Section 4.2 of Canay et al. (2017).
Alternative approaches. We now briefly discuss two alternative approaches in settings
with a small number of clusters. First, while all of the “model-based” papers above treat ν
jt
as random, an alternative perspective would be to condition on the values of ν and view
jt
the remaining uncertainty as coming only from the sampling of the individual units within
clusters, constructing standard errors by clustering only at the unit level. This will generally
produce a violation of parallel trends, but the violation may be relatively small if the cluster-
specific shocks are small relative to the idiosyncratic variation. The violation of parallel
trends could then be accounted for using the methods described in Section 4. To make this
concrete, consider the setting of Card and Krueger (1994) that compares employment in NJ
and PA after NJ raised its minimum wage. The aforementioned papers would consider NJ
and PA as drawn from a super-population of treated and untreated states, where the state-
level shocks are mean-zero, whereas the alternative approach would treat the two states as
fixed and view any state-level shocks between NJ and PA as a violation of the parallel trends
assumption. One could then explore the sensitivity of one’s conclusions to the magnitude
of this violation, potentially benchmarking it relative to the magnitude of the pre-treatment
violations as discussed in Section 4.5.
A second possibility is Fisher Randomization Tests (FRTs), otherwise known as permuta-
tion tests. The basic idea is to calculate some statistic of the data (e.g. the t-statistic of the
DiD estimator), andthenrecompute this statisticunder manypermutations ofthetreatment
assignment (at the cluster level). We then reject the null hypothesis of no effect if the test
40

--- PAGE 41 ---
statistic using theoriginaldatais larger than95%ofthe draws ofthe test statistics under the
permuted treatment assignment. Such tests have a long history in statistics, dating to Fisher
(1935). If treatment is randomly assigned, then FRTs have exact finite-sample validity under
the sharp null of no treatment effects for all units. The advantage of these tests is that they
place no restrictions on the potential outcomes, and thus allow arbitrary heterogeneity in
potential outcomes across clusters. On the other hand, the assumption of random treatment
assignment may often be questionable in DiD settings. Moreover, the “sharp” null of no
effects for all units may not be as economically interesting as the “weak” null of no average
effects. Nevertheless, permutation tests may be a useful benchmark: if one cannot reject
the null of no treatment effects even if treatment had been randomly assigned, this suggests
that there is not strong evidence of an effect in the data without other strong assumptions.
In settings with staggered treatment timing, it may be more plausible to assume that the
timing of when a unit gets treated is as good as random; see Roth and Sant’Anna (2021) for
efficient estimators and FRTs for this setting.
Recommendations. In sum, recent research has made progress on the problem of con-
ducting inference with relatively few clusters, but all of the available approaches require the
researcher to impose some potentially strong additional assumptions. Most of the litera-
ture has focused on model-based approaches, which require the researcher to impose some
homogeneity assumptions across clusters. Different homogeneity assumptions may be more
reasonable in different contexts, and so we encourage researchers using these approaches to
choose a method relying on a dimension of homogeneity that is most likely to hold (ap-
proximately) in their context. We also note that allowing for more heterogeneity may often
come at the expense of obtaining tests with lower power. When none of these homogeneity
assumptions is palatable, conditioning the inference on the cluster-level shocks and treating
them as violations of parallel trends, accompanied by appropriate sensitivity analyses, may
be an attractive alternative. Permutation-based methods also offer an intriguing alterna-
tive which requires no assumptions about homogeneity in potential outcomes, but requires
stronger assumptions on the assignment of treatment and tests a potentially less interesting
null hypothesis when the number of clusters is small.
5.2 Design-based inference and the appropriate level of clustering
ThecanonicalapproachtoinferenceinDiDassumesthatwehavealargenumberofindependently-
drawn clusters sampled from an infinite super-population. In practice, however, there are
two related conceptual difficulties with this framework. First, in many settings, it is unclear
what the super-population of clusters is — if the clusters in my sample are the 50 US states,
41

--- PAGE 42 ---
should I view these as having been drawn from a super-population of possible states? Sec-
ond, in many settings it is hard to determine what the appropriate level of clustering is — if
my data is on individuals who live in counties, which are themselves subsets of states, which
is the appropriate level of clustering?
To address these difficulties, it is often easier to consider a design-based framework that
viewstheunitsinthedataasfixed(notnecessarily sampledfromasuper-population)andthe
treatment assignment as stochastic. This helps to address the difficulties described above,
since we do not need to conceptualize the super-population, and the appropriate level of
clustering is determined by the way that treatment is assigned. Design-based frameworks
have a long history in statistics dating to Neyman (1923), and have received recent attention
in econometrics (e.g. Abadie, Athey, Imbens and Wooldridge, 2020, 2023). However, until
recently, most of the results in the design-based literature has focused on settings where
treatment probabilities are known or depend only on observable characteristics, and thus
were not directly applicable to DiD.
Recent work by Rambachan and Roth (2022a) has extended this design-based view to
settings like DiD, where treatment probabilities may differ in unknown ways across units.
Rambachan and Roth (2022a) consider a setting similar to the canonical two-period model
in Section 2. However, following the design-based paradigm, they treat the units in the
population (and their potential outcomes) as fixed rather than drawn from an infinite super-
population. In this set-up, they show that the usual DiD estimator is unbiased for a finite-
population analog to the ATT under a finite-population analog to the parallel trends as-
sumption. In particular, let π denote the probability that D 1, and suppose that
i i
“
N
N
π 1 Y 0 Y 0 0,
i i,2 i,1
´ N p p q´ p qq “
i“1ˆ ˙
ÿ
so that treatment probabilities are uncorrelated with trends in Y 0 (a finite-population
p q
version of parallel trends). Then E D r τ 2 s “ τ 2 Fin, where τ 2 Fin “ E D rN 1 1 i:Di“1 p Y i,2 p 1 q ´
Y i,2 0 is a finite-population analog to the ATT, i.e. the expected average ř treatment effect
p qqs
p
on the treated, where the expectation is taken over the stochastic distribution of which units
are treated.
Rambachan and Roth (2022a) show that from the design-based perspective, cluster-
robust standard errors are valid (but potentially conservative) if the clustering is done at the
level at which treatment is independently determined. Thus, for example, if the treatment is
assigned independently at the unit-level,17 then we should cluster at the unit-level; by con-
17Formally, if units are assigned independently before we condition on the number of treated units, N1.
42

--- PAGE 43 ---
trast, if treatment is determined independently across states, then we should cluster at the
state level. This clear recommendation on the appropriate level of clustering contrasts with
the more traditional model-based view that clustering should be done at the level at which
the errors are correlated, which often makes it challenging to choose the appropriate level
(MacKinnon, Nielsen and Webb, 2022). These results also suggest that it may not actually
be a problem if it is difficult to conceptualize a super-population from which our clusters are
drawn; rather, the “usual” approach remains valid if there is no super-population and the
uncertainty comes from stochastic assignment of treatment.18
Recommendations. If it is difficult to conceptualize a super-population, fear not! Your
DiDanalysis canlikely stillbesensible froma finite-populationperspective where wethinkof
thetreatmentassignmentasstochastic. Furthermore,ifyouareunsureabouttheappropriate
level of clustering, a good rule of thumb (at least from the design-based perspective) is to
cluster at the level at which treatment is independently assigned.
6 Other topics and areas for future research
In this section, we briefly touch on some other areas of interest in the DiD literature, and
highlight some open areas for future research.
Distributional treatment effects. The DiD literature typically focuses on estimation
of the ATT, but researchers may often be interested in the effect of a treatment on the en-
tire distribution of an outcome. Athey and Imbens (2006) propose the Changes-in-Changes
model, which allows one to infer the full counterfactual distribution of Y 0 for the treated
p q
group in DiD setups. The key assumption is that the mapping between quantiles of Y 0
p q
for the treated and comparison groups remains stable over time – e.g., if the 30th percentile
of the outcome for the treated group was the 70th percentile for the comparison group prior
to treatment, this relationship would have been preserved in the second period if treatment
had not occurred. Bonhomme and Sauder (2011) propose an alternative distributional DiD
modelbasedonaparalleltrendsassumptionforthe(logofthe)characteristic function,which
is motivated by a model of test scores. Callaway and Li (2019) propose a distributional DiD
18In some settings, the uncertainty may arise both from sampling and the stochastic assignment of treat-
ment. Abadie et al.(2023)studyamodelinwhichbothtreatmentisstochasticandunitsaresampledfroma
largerpopulation, andsuggestthat oneshouldcluster amongunits if either their treatmentassignmentsare
correlatedorthe eventthattheyareincludedinthe sampleis correlated. Althoughthe Abadie et al.(2023)
results do not directly apply to DiD, we suspect that a similar heuristic would apply in DiD as well in light
of the results in Rambachan and Roth (2022a) for the case where only treatment is viewed as stochastic.
Formalizing this intuition strikes us as an interesting area for future research.
43

--- PAGE 44 ---
model based on a copula stability assumption. Finally, Roth and Sant’Anna (2022) show
that parallel trends holds for all functional forms under a “parallel trends”-type assumption
for the cumulative distribution of Y 0 , and this assumption also allows one to infer the full
p q
counterfactual distribution for the treated group.
Quasi-random treatment timing. Insettings withstaggered treatment timing, the gen-
eralized parallel trends assumption is often justified by arguing that the timing of treatment
is random or quasi-random. Roth and Sant’Anna (2021) show that if one is willing to as-
sume treatment timing is as good as random, one can obtain more efficient estimates than
using the staggered DiD methods discussed in Section 3.3. This builds on earlier work by
McKenzie (2012), who highlighted that DiD is typically inefficient in an RCT where lagged
outcomes are observed, as well as a large literature in statistics on efficient covariate ad-
justment in randomized experiments (e.g., Lin, 2013). Shaikh and Toulis (2021) propose a
method for observational settings where treatment timing is random conditional on fixed ob-
servable characteristics. We think that developing methods for observational settings where
treatment timing is approximately random, possibly conditional on covariates and lagged
outcomes, is an interesting area for further study in the years ahead.
Sequential ignorability. As discussed in Section 3.4, an exciting new literature in DiD
has begun to focus on settings where treatment can turn on and off and potential outcomes
depend on the full path of treatments. A similar setting has been studied extensively in
biostatistics, beginning with the pioneering work of Robins (1986). The key difference is
that the biostatistics literature has focused on sequential random ignorability assumptions
that impose that treatment in each period is random conditional on the path of covariates
and realized outcomes, rather than parallel trends. We suspect that there may be eco-
nomic settings where sequential ignorability may be preferable to parallel trends, e.g. when
there is feedback between lagged outcomes and future treatment choices. Integrating these
two literatures — e.g., understanding in which economic settings is parallel trends prefer-
able to sequential ignorability and vice versa — is an interesting area for future research.
An interesting step towards incorporating sequential ignorability in economic analyses is
Viviano and Bradic (2021).
Spillover effects. The vast majority of the DiD literature imposes the SUTVA assump-
tion, which rules out spillover effects. However, spillover effects may be important in many
economic applications, such as when policy in one area affects neighboring areas, or when
individuals are connected in a network. Butts (2021) provides some initial work in this
44

--- PAGE 45 ---
direction by extending the framework of Callaway and Sant’Anna (2021) to allow for local
spatial spillovers. Huber and Steinmayr (2021) also consider extensions to allow for spillover
effects. We suspect that in the coming years, we will see more work on DiD with spillovers.
Conditional treatment effects. TheDiDliteraturehasplacedalotofemphasisonlearn-
ingabouttheATT’sofdifferentgroups. However, inmanysituations,itmayalsobedesirable
to better understand how these ATT’s vary between subpopulations defined by covariate val-
ues. For instance, how does the average treatment effect of a training program on earnings
vary according to the age of its participants? Abadie (2005) provides re-weighting methods
to tackle these types of questions using linear approximations. However, recent research
has shown that data-adaptive/machine-learning procedures can be used to more flexibly
estimate treatment effect heterogeneity in the context of RCTs or cross-sectional observa-
tional studies with unconfoundedness (e.g., Lee, Okui and Whang, 2017; Wager and Athey,
2018; Chernozhukov, Demirer, Duflo and Fernández-Val, 2020). Whether such tools can be
adapted to estimate treatment effect heterogeneity in DiD setups is a promising area for
future research.
Tripledifferences. AcommonvariantonDiDistriple-differences(DDD),whichcompares
the DiD estimate for a demographic group expected to be affected by the treatment to a DiD
for a second demographic group expected not to be affected (or effected less). For example,
Gruber (1994) studies the impacts of mandated maternity leave policies using a DDD design
that compares the evolution of wages between treated/untreated states, before/after the law
passed, and between married women age 20-40 (who are expected to be affected) and other
workers. DDD has received much less attention in the recent literature than standard DiD.
We note, however, that DDD can often be cast as a DiD with a transformed outcome. For
˜
example, if we defined the state-level outcome Y as the difference in wages between women
age 20-40 and other workers, then Gruber (1994)’s DDD analysis would be equivalent to a
˜
DiD analysis using Y as the outcome instead of wages. Nevertheless, we think that providing
a more formal analysis of DDD along with practical recommendations for applied researchers
would be a useful direction for future research.
Connections to other panel data methods. DiDisofcourseoneofmanypossiblepanel
data methods. One of the most prominent alternatives is the synthetic control (SC) method,
pioneered by Abadie, Diamond and Hainmueller (2010). Much oftheDiD andSCliteratures
have evolved separately, using different data-generating processes as the baseline (Abadie,
2021). Recent work has begun to try to combine insights from the two literatures (e.g.,
45

--- PAGE 46 ---
Arkhangelsky, Athey, Hirshberg, Imbens and Wager,2021;Ben-Michael, Feller and Rothstein,
2021,2022;Doudchenko and Imbens,2016). Wethink that exploring further connections be-
tween the literatures — and in particular, providing clear guidance for practitioners on when
one we should expect one method to perform better than the other, or whether one should
consider a hybrid of the two — is an interesting direction for future research.
7 Conclusion
This paper synthesizes the recent literature on DiD. Some key themes are that researchers
should be clear about the comparison group used for identification, match the estimation
and inference methods to the identifying assumptions, and explore robustness to possible
violations of those assumptions. We emphasize that context-specific knowledge will often
be needed to choose the right identifying assumptions and accompanying methods. We are
hopeful that these recent developments will help to make DiD analyses more transparent
and credible in the years to come.
46

--- PAGE 47 ---
Table 1: A Checklist for DiD Practitioners
– Is everyone treated at the same time?
If yes, and panel is balanced, estimation with TWFE specifications such as (5) or (7)
yield easily interpretable estimates.
If no, consider using a “heterogeneity-robust” estimator for staggered treatment timing
asdescribed inSection 3. The appropriate estimator will depend onwhether treatment
turnson/offandwhich paralleltrendsassumption you’rewilling toimpose. UseTWFE
only if you’re confident in treatment effect homogeneity.
– Are you sure about the validity of the parallel trends assumption?
If yes, explain why, including a justification for your choice of functional form. If
the justification is (quasi-)random treatment timing, consider using a more efficient
estimator as discussed in Section 6.
If no, consider the following steps:
1. If parallel trends would be more plausible conditional on covariates, consider a
method that conditions on covariates, as described in Section 4.2.
2. Assess the plausibility of the parallel trends assumption by constructing an event-
study plot. If thereisacommontreatment dateandyou’reusing anunconditional
parallel trends assumption, plot the coefficients from a specification like (16). If
not, then see Section 4.3 for recommendations on event-plot construction.
3. Accompany the event-study plot with diagnostics of the power of the pre-test
against relevant alternatives and/or non-inferiority tests, as described in Section
4.4.1.
4. Report formal sensitivity analyses that describe the robustness of the conclusions
to potential violations of parallel trends, as described in Section 4.5.
– Do you have a large number of treated and untreated clusters sampled from
a super-population?
If yes, then use cluster-robust methods at the cluster level. A good rule of thumb is
to cluster at the level at which treatment is independently assigned (e.g. at the state
level when policy is determined at the state level); see Section 5.2.
If you have a small number of treated clusters, consider using one of the alternative
inference methods described in Section 5.1.
If you can’t imagine the super-population, consider a design-based justification for
inference instead, as discussed in Section 5.2.
47

--- PAGE 48 ---
Table 2: Statistical Packages for Recent DiD Methods
Heterogeneity Robust Estimators for Staggered Treatment Timing
Package Software Description
did,csdid R,Stata ImplementsCallawayandSant’Anna(2021)
did2s R,Stata ImplementsGardner(2021),Borusyaketal.(2021),SunandAbraham(2021),
CallawayandSant’Anna(2021),RothandSant’Anna(2021)
didimputation,did_imputation R,Stata ImplementsBorusyaketal.(2021)
DIDmultiplegt,did_multiplegt R,Stata ImplementsdeChaisemartinandD’Haultfœuille(2020)
eventstudyinteract Stata ImplementsSunandAbraham(2021)
flexpaneldid Stata ImplementsDettmann(2020),basedonHeckmanetal.(1998)
fixest R ImplementsSunandAbraham(2021)
stackedev Stata ImplementsstackingapproachinCengizetal.(2019)
staggered R ImplementsRothandSant’Anna(2021),CallawayandSant’Anna(2021),
andSunandAbraham(2021)
xtevent Stata ImplementsFreyaldenhovenetal.(2019)
DiD withCovariates
Package Software Description
DRDID,drdid R,Stata ImplementsSant’AnnaandZhao(2020)
Diagnostics for TWFE with Staggered Timing
Package Software Description
bacondecomp,ddtiming R,Stata DiagnosticsfromGoodman-Bacon(2021)
TwoWayFEWeights R,Stata DiagnosticsfromdeChaisemartinandD’Haultfœuille(2020)
Diagnostic / Sensitivity for Violations of Parallel Trends
Package Software Description
honestDiD R,Stata ImplementsRambachanandRoth(2022b)
pretrends R DiagnosticsfromRoth(2022)
Note: ThistablelistsRandStatapackagesforrecentDiDmethods,andisbasedonAsjadNaqvi’srepositoryathttps://asjadnaqvi.github.io/DiD/. Several
ofthepackageslistedunder“HeterogeneityRobustEstimators”alsoaccommodatecovariates.
48

--- PAGE 49 ---
References
Abadie, Alberto, “Semiparametric Difference-in-Differences Estimators,” The Review of
Economic Studies, 2005, 72 (1), 1–19.
,“UsingSyntheticControls: Feasibility, DataRequirements, andMethodologicalAspects,”
Journal of Economic Literature, June 2021, 59 (2), 391–425.
, Alexis Diamond, and Jens Hainmueller, “Synthetic Control Methods for Com-
parative Case Studies: Estimating the Effect of California’s Tobacco Control Program,”
Journal of the American Statistical Association, June 2010, 105 (490), 493–505.
and Guido W. Imbens, “Large sample properties of matching estimators for average
treatment effects,” Econometrica, 2006, 74 (1), 235–267.
and , “On the Failure of the Bootstrap for Matching Estimators,” Econometrica, 2008,
76 (6), 1537–1557.
and , “Bias-Corrected Matching Estimators for Average Treatment Effects,” Journal
of Business & Economic Statistics, 2011, 29 (1), 1–11.
and ,“AMartingaleRepresentationforMatchingEstimators,” Journal of the American
Statistical Association, 2012, 107 (498), 833–843.
and Jann Spiess, “Robust Post-Matching Inference,” Journal of the American Statis-
tical Association, April 2022, 117 (538), 983–995. Publisher: Taylor & Francis _eprint:
https://doi.org/10.1080/01621459.2020.1840383.
, Susan Athey, Guido Imbens, and Jeffrey Wooldridge, “When Should You Adjust
Standard Errors for Clustering?,” The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 2023, 138 (1),
1–35.
, , Guido W. Imbens, and Jeffrey M. Wooldridge,“Sampling-BasedversusDesign-
Based Uncertainty in Regression Analysis,” Econometrica, 2020, 88 (1), 265–296.
Abbring, Jaap H. and Gerard J. van den Berg, “The nonparametric identification of
treatment effects in duration models,” Econometrica, 2003, 71 (5), 1491–1517.
Andrews, Isaiah, Jonathan Roth, and Ariel Pakes, “Inference for Linear Conditional
Moment Inequalities,” Review of Economic Studies, 2022, Forthcoming.
Angrist, Joshua D. and Jorn-Steffen Pischke, Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An
Empiricist’s Companion, Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2009.
Arellano, M., “Practitioners’ Corner: Computing Robust Standard Errors for Within-
groups Estimators,” Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics, 1987, 49 (4), 431–434.
Arkhangelsky, Dmitry, Susan Athey, David A. Hirshberg, Guido W. Imbens,
and Stefan Wager, “Synthetic Difference-in-Differences,” American Economic Review,
2021, 111 (12), 4088–4118.
49

--- PAGE 50 ---
Armstrong, Timothy B. and Michal Kolesár, “Optimal Inference in a Class of Regres-
sion Models,” Econometrica, 2018, 86 (2), 655–683.
Athey, Susan and Guido Imbens, “Design-based Analysis in Difference-In-Differences
Settings with Staggered Adoption,” Journal of Econometrics, 2022, 226 (1), 62–79.
and Guido W. Imbens, “Identification and Inference in Nonlinear Difference-in-
Differences Models,” Econometrica, 2006, 74 (2), 431–497.
Baker, Andrew, David F. Larcker, and Charles C. Y. Wang, “How much should
we trust staggered difference-in-differences estimates?,” Journal of Financial Economics,
2022, 144 (2), 370–395.
Ben-Michael, Eli, Avi Feller, and Jesse Rothstein, “The Augmented Synthetic Control
Method,” Journal of the American Statistical Association, 2021, 116 (536), 1789–1803.
, , and , “Synthetic controlswithstaggeredadoption,” Journal of the Royal Statistical
Society: Series B, 2022, 84 (2), 351–381.
Bertrand, Marianne, Esther Duflo, and Sendhil Mullainathan, “How Much Should
We Trust Differences-In-Differences Estimates?,” The Quarterly Journal of Economics,
2004, 119 (1), 249–275.
Bilinski, Alyssa and Laura A. Hatfield, “Seeking evidence of absence: Reconsidering
tests of model assumptions,” arXiv:1805.03273 [stat], May 2018.
Bojinov, Iavor, Ashesh Rambachan, and Neil Shephard, “Panel experiments and
dynamic causal effects: A finite population perspective,” Quantitative Economics, 2021,
12 (4), 1171–1196.
Bonhomme, Stéphane and Ulrich Sauder, “Recovering distributions in difference-in-
differences models: A comparison of selective and comprehensive schooling,” Review of
Economics and Statistics, 2011, 93 (2), 479–494.
Borusyak, Kirill and Xavier Jaravel, “Revisiting Event Study Designs,” SSRN Scholarly
Paper ID 2826228, Social Science Research Network, Rochester, NY 2018.
, , and Jann Spiess, “Revisiting Event Study Designs: Robust and Efficient Estima-
tion,” arXiv:2108.12419 [econ], 2021.
Butts, Kyle, “Difference-in-Differences Estimation with Spatial Spillovers,”
arXiv:2105.03737 [econ], 2021.
Caetano, Carolina, Brantly Callaway, Stroud Payne, and Hugo Sant’Anna
Rodrigues, “Difference in Differences with Time-Varying Covariates,” February 2022.
arXiv:2202.02903 [econ].
Callaway, Brantlyand PedroH.C. Sant’Anna,“Difference-in-Differences withmultiple
time periods,” Journal of Econometrics, 2021, 225 (2), 200–230.
and Tong Li, “Quantile treatment effects in difference in differences models with panel
50

--- PAGE 51 ---
data,” Quantitative Economics, 2019, 10 (4), 1579–1618.
, Andrew Goodman-Bacon, and Pedro H. C. Sant’Anna, “Difference-in-Differences
with a Continuous Treatment,” arXiv:2107.02637 [econ], 2021.
Cameron, A Colin, Jonah B Gelbach, and Douglas L Miller, “Bootstrap-Based
Improvements for Inference With Clustered Errors,” Review of Economics and Statistics,
2008, 90 (3), 414–427.
Canay, Ivan A., Andres Santos, and Azeem M. Shaikh, “The wild bootstrap with
a “small” number of “large” clusters,” Review of Economics and Statistics, 2021, 103 (2),
346–363.
, Joseph P. Romano, and Azeem M. Shaikh, “Randomization Tests Under an Ap-
proximate Symmetry Assumption,” Econometrica, 2017, 85 (3), 1013–1030.
Card, David and Alan B Krueger, “Minimum Wages and Employment: A Case Study
of the Fast-Food Industry in New Jersey and Pennsylvania,” American Economic Review,
1994, 84 (4), 772–793.
Cengiz, Doruk, Arindrajit Dube, Attila Lindner, and Ben Zipperer, “The Effect
of Minimum Wages on Low-Wage Jobs,” The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 2019, 134
(3), 1405–1454.
Chabé-Ferret, Sylvain, “Analysis of the bias of Matching and Difference-in-Difference
under alternative earnings and selection processes,” Journal of Econometrics, 2015, 185
(1), 110–123.
Chang, Neng-Chieh, “Double/debiased machine learning for difference-in-differences,”
Econometrics Journal, 2020, 23, 177–191.
Chernozhukov, Victor, Kaspar Wüthrich, and Yinchu Zhu, “An Exact and Robust
Conformal Inference Method for Counterfactual and Synthetic Controls,” Journal of the
American Statistical Association, 2021, 116 (536), 1849–1864.
, Mert Demirer, Esther Duflo, and Iván Fernández-Val, “Generic Machine Learn-
ing Inference on Heterogeneous Treatment Effects in Randomized Experiments,” arXiv:
1712.04802, 2020, pp. 1–52.
Conley, Timothy G. and Christopher R. Taber, “Inference with “Difference in Dif-
ferences” with a Small Number of Policy Changes,” Review of Economics and Statistics,
2011, 93 (1), 113–125.
Daw, Jamie R. and Laura A. Hatfield, “Matching and Regression to the Mean in
Difference-in-Differences Analysis,” Health Services Research, 2018.
de Chaisemartin, Clément and Xavier D’Haultfoeuille, “Difference-in-Differences Es-
timators of Intertemporal Treatment Effects,” March 2022. arXiv:2007.04267 [econ].
and Xavier D’Haultfœuille, “Fuzzy Differences-in-Differences,” The Review of Eco-
51

--- PAGE 52 ---
nomic Studies, 2018, 85 (2), 999–1028.
and , “Two-Way Fixed Effects Estimators with Heterogeneous Treatment Effects,”
American Economic Review, 2020, 110 (9), 2964–2996.
and , “Two-way Fixed Effects Regressions with Several Treatments,” SSRN Scholarly
Paper ID 3751060, Social Science Research Network, Rochester, NY 2021.
and ,“Two-wayfixedeffectsanddifferences-in-differences withheterogeneoustreatment
effects: a survey,” Econometrics Journal, 2022, Forthcoming.
Dette, Holger and Martin Schumann, “Difference-in-Differences EstimationUnderNon-
Parallel Trends,” Working Paper, 2020.
Dettmann, Eva, “Flexpaneldid: A Stata Toolbox for Causal Analysis with Varying Treat-
ment Time and Duration,” SSRN Scholarly Paper ID 3692458, Social Science Research
Network, Rochester, NY 2020.
Ding, Peng and Fan Li, “ABracketing Relationship between Difference-in-Differences and
Lagged-Dependent-Variable Adjustment,” Political Analysis, 2019, 27, 605—-615.
Donald, Stephen G. and Kevin Lang, “Inference with Difference-in-Differences and
Other Panel Data,” The Review of Economics and Statistics, 2007, 89 (2), 221–233.
Doudchenko, Nikolay and Guido W. Imbens, “Balancing, Regression, Difference-In-
Differences and Synthetic Control Methods: A Synthesis,” Working Paper 22791, National
Bureau of Economic Research 2016.
Ferman, Bruno and Cristine Pinto, “Inference in Differences-in-Differences with Few
Treated Groups and Heteroskedasticity,” The Review of Economics and Statistics, 2019,
101 (3), 452–467.
Fisher, R. A., The design of experiments The design of experiments, Oxford, England:
Oliver & Boyd, 1935. Pages: xi, 251.
Freyaldenhoven, Simon, Christian Hansen, and Jesse M. Shapiro,“Pre-eventTrends
in the Panel Event-Study Design,” American Economic Review, 2019, 109 (9), 3307–3338.
, , Jorge Pérez Pérez, and Jesse M. Shapiro, “Visualization, identification, and
estimation in the linear panel event-study design.,” Advances in Economics and Econo-
metrics: Twelfth World Congress, 2021, Forthcoming.
Gardner, John, “Two-stage differences in differences,” Working Paper, 2021.
Goodman-Bacon, Andrew, “Difference-in-differences withvariationintreatment timing,”
Journal of Econometrics, 2021, 225 (2), 254–277.
Gruber, Jonathan, “The Incidence of Mandated Maternity Benefits,” The American Eco-
nomic Review, 1994, 84 (3), 622–641.
Hagemann, Andreas, “Inference with a single treated cluster,” arXiv:2010.04076
[econ.EM], 2020, pp. 1–23.
52

--- PAGE 53 ---
,“Permutationinferencewithafinitenumber ofheterogeneousclusters,” arXiv:1907.01049
[econ.EM], 2021.
Hasegawa, Raiden B., Daniel W. Webster, and Dylan S. Small, “Evaluating Mis-
souri’s Handgun Purchaser Law: A Bracketing Method for Addressing Concerns About
History Interacting with Group,” Epidemiology, 2019, 30 (3), 371–379.
Heckman, James, Hidehiko Ichimura, Jeffrey Smith, and Petra Todd, “Character-
izing Selection Bias Using Experimental Data,” Econometrica, 1998, 66 (5), 1017–1098.
Heckman, James J., Hidehiko Ichimura, and Petra Todd, “Matching as an econo-
metric evaluation estimator: Evidence from evaluating a job training programme,” The
Review of Economic Studies, 1997, 64 (4), 605–654.
Holland, Paul W., “Statistics and Causal Inference,” Journal of the American Statistical
Association, 1986, 81 (396), 945–960.
Huber, Martin and Andreas Steinmayr, “A Framework for Separating Individual-Level
Treatment Effects From Spillover Effects,” Journal of Business & Economic Statistics,
2021, 39 (2), 422–436.
Ibragimov, Rustam and Ulrich K. Müller, “Inference with few heterogeneous clusters,”
Review of Economics and Statistics, 2016, 98 (1), 83–96.
Imai, Kosuke and In Song Kim,“OntheUseofTwo-wayFixedEffectsRegressionModels
for Causal Inference with Panel Data,” Political Analysis, 2021, 29 (3), 405–415.
Jakiela, Pamela, “Simple Diagnostics for Two-Way Fixed Effects,” arXiv:2103.13229 [econ,
q-fin], March 2021.
Kahn-Lang, Ariella and Kevin Lang, “The Promise and Pitfalls of Differences-in-
Differences: Reflections on 16 and Pregnant and Other Applications,” Journal of Business
& Economic Statistics, 2020, 38 (3), 613–620.
Keele, Luke J., Dylan S. Small, Jesse Y. Hsu, and Colin B. Fogarty, “Patterns
of Effects and Sensitivity Analysis for Differences-in-Differences,” arXiv:1901.01869 [stat],
February 2019. arXiv: 1901.01869.
Khan, Shakeeb and Elie Tamer, “Irregular Identification, Support Conditions, and In-
verse Weight Estimation,” Econometrica, 2010, 78 (6), 2021–2042.
Lee, Sokbae, Ryo Okui, and Yoon-Jae Jae Whang, “Doubly robust uniform con-
fidence band for the conditional average treatment effect function,” Journal of Applied
Econometrics, 2017, 32 (7), 1207–1225.
Liang, Kung-Yee and Scott L. Zeger, “Longitudinal data analysis using generalized
linear models,” Biometrika, 1986, 73 (1), 13–22.
Lin, Winston, “Agnostic notes on regression adjustments to experimental data: Reexam-
ining Freedman’s critique,” Annals of Applied Statistics, 2013, 7 (1), 295–318.
53

--- PAGE 54 ---
Liu, Licheng, Ye Wang, and Yiqing Xu, “A Practical Guide to Counterfactual Esti-
mators for Causal Inference with Time-Series Cross-Sectional Data,” American Journal of
Political Science, 2022, Forthcoming.
MacKinnon, James G. and Matthew D. Webb, “The wild bootstrap for few (treated)
clusters,” The Econometrics Journal, 2018, 21 (2), 114–135.
, Morten O. Nielsen, and Matthew D. Webb, “Cluster-robust inference: A guide to
empirical practice,” Journal of Econometrics, 2022, Forthcoming.
Malani, Anup and Julian Reif, “Interpreting pre-trends as anticipation: Impact on esti-
mated treatment effects from tort reform,” Journal of Public Economics, 2015, 124, 1–17.
Manski, Charles F. and John V. Pepper, “How Do Right-to-Carry Laws Affect Crime
Rates? Coping with Ambiguity Using Bounded-Variation Assumptions,” The Review of
Economics and Statistics, 2018, 100 (2), 232–244.
Marcus, Michelle and Pedro H. C. Sant’Anna, “The role of parallel trends in event
study settings : An application to environmental economics,” Journal of the Association
of Environmental and Resource Economists, 2021, 8 (2), 235–275.
McKenzie, David, “Beyond baseline and follow-up: The case for more T in experiments,”
Journal of Development Economics, 2012, 99 (2), 210–221.
Meyer, Bruce D., “Natural and Quasi-Experiments in Economics,” Journal of Business &
Economic Statistics, 1995, 13 (2), 151–161.
Neyman, Jerzy, “On the Application of Probability Theory to Agricultural Experiments.
Essay on Principles. Section 9.,” Statistical Science, 1923, 5 (4), 465–472.
Olea, José Luis Montiel and Mikkel Plagborg-Møller, “Simultaneous confidence
bands: Theory, implementation, and an application to SVARs,” Journal of Applied Econo-
metrics, 2019, 34 (1), 1–17.
Rambachan, Ashesh and Jonathan Roth, “Design-Based Uncertainty for Quasi-
Experiments,” November 2022. arXiv:2008.00602 [econ, stat].
and , “A More Credible Approach to Parallel Trends,” Review of Economic Studies,
2022, Forthcoming.
Robins, J. M., “A New Approach To Causal Inference in Mortality Studies With a Sus-
tained Exposure Period - Application To Control of the Healthy Worker Survivor Effect,”
Mathematical Modelling, 1986, 7, 1393–1512.
Roth, Jonathan, “Should We Adjust for the Test for Pre-trends in Difference-in-Difference
Designs?,” arXiv:1804.01208 [econ, math, stat], 2018.
, “Pre-test with Caution: Event-study Estimates After Testing for Parallel Trends,” Amer-
ican Economic Review: Insights, 2022, 4 (3), 305–322.
and Pedro H. C. Sant’Anna, “Efficient Estimation for Staggered Rollout Designs,”
54

--- PAGE 55 ---
arXiv:2102.01291 [econ, math, stat], 2021.
and , “When Is Parallel Trends Sensitive to Functional Form?,” Econometrica, 2022,
Forthcoming.
Rubin, Donald B., “Estimating causal effects of treatments in randomized and nonran-
domized studies,” Journal of Educational Psychology, 1974, 66 (5), 688–70.
Ryan, Andrew M., “Well-Balanced or too Matchy–Matchy? The Controversy over Match-
ing in Difference-in-Differences,” Health Services Research, 2018, 53 (6), 4106–4110.
Sant’Anna, Pedro H. C. and Jun Zhao, “Doubly robust difference-in-differences esti-
mators,” Journal of Econometrics, 2020, 219 (1), 101–122.
Schmidheiny, Kurt and Sebastian Siegloch, “OnEvent Studies andDistributed-Lags in
Two-Way Fixed Effects Models: Identification, Equivalence, and Generalization,” SSRN
Scholarly Paper 3571164, Social Science Research Network, Rochester, NY 2020.
Shaikh, Azeem and Panos Toulis, “Randomization Tests in Observational Studies With
Staggered Adoption of Treatment,” Journal of the American Statistical Association, 2021,
116 (536), 1835–1848.
Strezhnev, Anton, “Semiparametric weighting estimators for multi-period difference-in-
differences designs,” Working Paper, 2018.
Sun, Liyang and Sarah Abraham, “Estimatingdynamictreatmenteffectsineventstudies
with heterogeneous treatment effects,” Journal of Econometrics, 2021, 225 (2), 175–199.
Viviano, Davide and Jelena Bradic, “Dynamic covariate balancing: estimating treat-
ment effects over time,” June 2021. arXiv:2103.01280 [econ, math, stat].
Wager, Stefan and Susan Athey, “Estimationand Inference of Heterogeneous Treatment
Effects using Random Forests,” Journal of the American Statistical Association, 2018, 113
(523), 1228–1242.
Wooldridge, Jeffrey M, “Cluster-Sample Methods in Applied Econometrics,” American
Economic Review P&P, 2003, 93 (2), 133–138.
, “Two-Way Fixed Effects, the Two-Way Mundlak Regression, and Difference-in-
Differences Estimators,” Working Paper, 2021, pp. 1–89.
Ye, Ting, Luke Keele, Raiden Hasegawa, and Dylan S. Small, “A Negative Corre-
lation Strategy for Bracketing in Difference-in-Differences,” arXiv:2006.02423 [econ, stat],
2021.
Zeldow, Bret and Laura A. Hatfield, “Confounding and regression adjustment in
difference-in-differences studies,” Health Services Research, 2021, 56 (5), 932–941.
55

--- PAGE 56 ---
A Connecting model-based assumptions to potential out-
comes
This section formalizes connections between the model-based assumptions in Section 5.1
and the potential outcomes framework. We derive how the errors in the structural model
(18) map to primitives based on potential outcomes in the canonical model from Section 2.
Specifically, we show that under the set-up of Section 2, Assumptions 1 and 2 imply that
the canonical DiD estimator takes the form given in (20), where β τ 2 is the ATT at the
“
cluster level, ν jt ν jt,0 D j ν jt,1 and ǫ ijt ǫ ijt,0 D j ǫ ijt,1, where19
“ ` “ `
ǫ Y 0 E Y 0 j i j
ijt,0 ijt ijt
“ p q´ r p q| p q “ s
ǫ Y 1 Y 0 E Y 1 Y 0 j i j
ijt,1 ijt ijt ijt ijt
“ p q´ p q´ r p q´ p q| p q “ s
ν E Y 0 j i j E Y 0 D
jt,0 ijt ijt j
“ r p q| p q “ s´ r p q| s
ν E Y 1 Y 0 j i j τ .
jt,1 ijt ijt t
“ r p q´ p q| p q “ s´
Thus, in the canonical set-up, restrictions on ν and ǫ can be viewed as restrictions on
jt ijt
primitives that are functions of the potential outcomes.
Adopt the notation and set-up in Section 2, except now each unit i belongs to a cluster
j and treatment is assigned at the cluster level D . We assume clusters are drawn iid from
j
a superpopulation of clusters and then units are drawn iid within the sampled cluster. We
write J to denote the number of clusters with treatment d, and n the number of units in
d j
cluster j. As in the main text, let Y n ´1 Y be the sample mean within cluster
jt
“
j i:jpiq“j ijt
j. The canonical DiD estimator at the cluster level can then be written as:
ř
1 1
τ Y Y Y Y
j2 j1 j2 j1
“ J 1 p ´ q´ J 0 p ´ q
j:D ÿj“1 i:D ÿj“0
1 1 1 1
p
Y Y Y Y .
ij2 ij1 ij2 ij1
“ J 1 j:D ÿj“1 n j i:j
ÿ
piq“j p ´ q´ J 0 i:D ÿj“0 n j i:j
ÿ
piq“j p ´ q
Since the observed outcome is Y 1 for treated units and Y 0 for control units, under the
p q p q
no anticipation assumption it follows that
1 1 1 1
τ Y 1 Y 0 Y 0 Y 0 ,
ij2 ij1 ij2 ij1
“ J 1 j:D ÿj“1 n j i:j
ÿ
piq“j p p q´ p qq´ J 0 j:D ÿj“0 n j i:j
ÿ
piq“j p p q´ p qq
19In w p hat follows, we write ErY p0q|D “ds to denote the expectation where one first draws j from the
ijt j
population with D “d and then draws Y p0q from that cluster.
j ijt
56

--- PAGE 57 ---
or equivalently,
1 1
τ Y 1 Y 0
ij2 ij2
“J 1 j:D ÿj“1 n j i:j
ÿ
piq“j p p q´ p qq`
1 1
p Y 0 Y 0
ij2 ij1
J 1 j:D ÿj“1 n j i:j
ÿ
piq“j p p q´ p qq´
1 1
Y 0 Y 0 .
ij2 ij1
J 0 j:D ÿj“0 n j i:j
ÿ
piq“j p p q´ p qq
Adding and subtracting terms of the form E Y j i 1 , we obtain
ijt
r | p q “ s
1
τ τ E Y 1 Y 0 j i j τ
2 ij2 ij2 2
“ ` J 1 p r p q´ p q| p q “ s´ q`
j:D ÿj“1
1 1
p Y 1 Y 0 E Y 1 Y 0 j i j
ij2 ij2 ij2 ij2
J 1 j:D ÿj“1 n j i:j
ÿ
piq“j p p q´ p q´ r p q´ p q| p q “ sq`
1 1
Y 0 Y 0 E Y 0 Y 0 j i j
ij2 ij1 ij2 ij1
J 1 j:D ÿj“1 n j i:j
ÿ
piq“j p p q´ p q´ r p q´ p q| p q “ sq´
1 1
Y 0 Y 0 E Y 0 Y 0 j i j
ij2 ij1 ij2 ij1
J 0 j:D ÿj“0 n j i:j
ÿ
piq“j p p q´ p q´ r p q´ p q| p q “ sq`
1 1
E Y 0 Y 0 j i j E Y 0 Y 0 j i j ,
ij2 ij1 ij2 ij1
J 1 r p q´ p q| p q “ s´ J 0 r p q´ p q| p q “ s
j:D ÿj“1 j:D ÿj“0
where τ 2
“
E J 1 ´1 j:Dj“1 E
r
Y ij2
p
1
q´
Y ij2
p
0
q|
j
p
i
q “
j
s “
E
r
Y ij2
p
1
q´
Y ij2
p
0
q|
D j
“
1
s
is
the ATT amon”g treated clusters (weighting all clusters eıqually).
ř
Now, we assume parallel trends at the cluster level, so that
E Y 0 Y 0 D 1 E Y 0 Y 0 D 0 0,
ij2 ij1 j ij2 ij1 j
r p q´ p q| “ s´ r p q´ p q| “ s “
which implies that
57

--- PAGE 58 ---
1
τ τ E Y 1 Y 0 j i j τ
2 ij2 ij2 2
“ ` J 1 p r p q´ p q| p q “ s´ q`
j:D ÿj“1
“∆νj,1
p 1 1
looooooo Y oooooo1ooooooo Y oomoo0oooooooEoooo Y oooooo1ooon Y 0 j i j
ij2 ij2 ij2 ij2
J 1 j:D ÿj“1 n j i:j
ÿ
piq“j p p q´ p q´
“
r
∆ǫij,
p
1
q´ p q| p q “ sq`
1 1
l
Y
oooooo0ooooooo
Y
ooooooo0oooooooEooo
Y
omooo0ooooooo
Y
oooooo0oooo
j
ooo
i
oooooo
j
oon
ij2 ij1 ij2 ij1
J 1 j:D ÿj“1 n j i:j
ÿ
piq“j p p q´ p q´
“
r
∆ǫij,
p
0
q´ p q| p q “ sq´
1 1
l
Y
oooooo0ooooooo
Y
oooooo0oooooooEoooo
Y
omoo0ooooooo
Y
ooooooo0ooo
j
ooo
i
ooooooo
j
oon
ij2 ij1 ij2 ij1
J 0 i:D ÿj“0 n j i:j
ÿ
piq“j p p q´ p q´
“
r
∆ǫij,
p
0
q´ p q| p q “ sq`
1
E Y 0loooo Y ooooooo0oooo j oo i ooooooo j oooooooEmo Y oooooo0ooooooo Y oooooo0oooo D ooooooon
ij2 ij1 ij2 ij1 j
J 1 p r p q´ p q| p q “ s´ r p q´ p q| sq´
j:D ÿj“1
∆νj,0
1
lEoooo
Y
oooooo0ooooooo
Y
ooooooo0ooo
j
ooo
i
oooooom
j
oooooEooo
Y
ooooooo0ooooooo
Y
oooooo0oooo
D
oooon
.
ij2 ij1 ij2 ij1 j
J 0 p r p q´ p q| p q “ s´ r p q´ p q| sq
j:D ÿj“0
∆νj,0
loooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooomoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooon
Letting ∆ν j ∆ν j,0 D j ∆ν j,1 and ∆ǫ ij ∆ǫ ij,0 D j ∆ǫ ij,1, it follows that τ takes the form
“ ` “ `
(20) with β τ 2.
“
p
58
